A---False---10
This trail was ﬁrst mapped by Walter Goodwin, but it closed for ﬁve decades until Joe Redington Jr. could ﬁnd a way to clear out the snow. Gunnar Kaasen traversed this trail during the Great Race of Mercy. In 1925, a diphtheria-stricken town was saved by a crucial serum run on this trail whose ﬁnal leg was led by Balto, a Siberian Husky. For the point, name this historic trail that connected Seward and Nome over hundreds of miles of Alaskan wilderness and is commemorated by an annual dog sled race.---This man dictated an infamous letter to the Pope decrying him as the “false monk Hildebrand.” Opposition to this man grew after a lightning strike on Utrecht Cathedral was viewed as divine punishment. Matilda of Tuscany convinced her guest, Pope Gregory VII, to end a feud with this man, who had been excommunicated for appointing his own bishops. The Investiture Controversy was triggered by, for the point, what Holy Roman Emperor who, in 1077, repented in the snow outside Canossa Castle?---A 7th century AD scholar named Virgilius Maro wrote the Epitomae and Epistolae, textbooks for this subject. The Ars Asporii was used in Ireland to teach this subject to local priests. Aelius Donatus, author of a popular Ars Minor and Ars Major, taught rhetoric and this subject to Saint Jerome, who used that knowledge in the 4th century to create the Vulgate. Linguists study the evolution of the Romance languages from, for the point, what classical language, the oﬃcial language of the Catholic Church?---The Yozma tax incentive program was created by this politician, who died while ironically carrying a paper with a song telling how it is impossible to bring a dead person back to life. This leader crushed Palestinian resistance with the “Iron Fist” policy during the First Intifada. Operation Thunderbolt on Entebbe Airport was ordered by this Prime Minister, who joined Shimon Peres and Yasser Arafat as 1994 Nobel Peace Prize laureates. Golda Meir was succeeded by, for the point, what Prime Minister of Israel who was assassinated in 1995?---This ruler is believed to be the subject of the Streatham and Houghton portraits, two works that may have been recreated after this ruler’s death. After being deposed, this monarch was aided at the execution by Sir Thomas Brydges and was added to Foxe’s Book of Martyrs, a Protestant propaganda book. In a painting of this ruler by Paul Delaroche, she kneels in white and reaches hesitantly for the chopping block [ﬁrst]. For the that was used for her execution in the Tower of London in 1554 on the orders of Mary I point, name this “Nine Days’ Queen” who brieﬂy succeeded Edward VI [sixth] as queen of England.---While searching for a navigable path along this river, an explorer stated “I am prepared to go anywhere, provided it be forward.” John Kirk served as the botanist for that mission along this river, which failed to move inland in part due to the Cahora Bassa Rapids. This river, called the “Great River” by the Tonga people, forms the eastern border of the Caprivi Strip. David Livingstone was the ﬁrst European to see the Victoria Falls on, for the point, what fourth-longest river of Africa that forms the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe?---The losing vice-presidential candidate in this election year was a newspaper magnate who later served as Secretary of the Navy. James Farley punned on the phrase “as Maine goes, so goes the nation” in this election year, whose losing candidate wasn’t saved by the endorsement of Jesse Owens. In this election year, a Kansas governor lost in a landslide, 523 to 8 in the Electoral College. For the point, name this year in which Alf Landon lost the presidential election to incumbent Franklin D. Roosevelt.---Before conning gold miners in the Klondike, “Soapy” Smith operated a prize soap racket in this city. Jonathan Cox and William Larimer founded this city at the conﬂuence of Cherry Creek and the South Platte River. In 1972, this city became the ﬁrst, and so far only, city to decline an invitation to host the Olympic Games. The “Carnation Gold Rush” took place in this largest city in the Front Range Corridor, whose suburbs include Littleton and Aurora. The Pike’s Peak Gold Rush triggered the settlement of, for the point, what capital city of Colorado?---In 1969, this football team drafted basketball player Morris Stroud to play tight end and to stand under the goalposts on opponent ﬁeld goal attempts to try to swat the ball away, a move that never worked but was banned anyway. The owner of this team, Lamar Hunt, tried to corner the silver market in 1980. Hank Stram coached this team to victory in Super Bowl 4, the last game before the NFL-AFL merger. The record for loudest crowd in an outdoor stadium was set in 2014 at this team’s Arrowhead Stadium. Andy Reid coaches and Patrick Mahomes plays for, for the point, what NFL team in western Missouri?---The documentary A Film Unﬁnished details an unﬁnished propaganda ﬁlm focusing on this location. A Heroes’ Monument in this location was ironically built with materials that Albert Speer planned to use. [an-yell-eh-vitch] led a resistance organization that was put down by Ju¨rgen Stroop Mordechai Anielewicz during a 1943 uprising in this location; many of the survivors were sent to the Treblinka extermination camp. Over 400,000 Jews were forced to live in, for the point, what location, the largest of its kind, in the capital of Poland? Warsaw ghetto (prompt on Warsaw and other partial answers)---A ruler of these people led a Paciﬁc Ocean expedition and supposedly found the “ﬁre” and “outer” belt. Qullqa warehouses were built by this empire, whose rulers included Topa and Pachacuti. Upon being given a Bible, a ruler of this empire failed to realize its use and began the Battle of Cajamarca; that ruler ﬁled the Ransom Room with gold. Atahualpa led, for the point, what empire based at Cuzco in the Andes Mountains of Peru?---A rival of this leader, Blucher Philogenes, was decapitated and had his head packed into a pail of ice so this leader could talk with it. This ruler told his militia to hunt down black dogs because he believed Clement Barbot could transform into one. The Tonton Macoute helped enforce this man’s rule, which was propped up by a cult of personality in which this man claimed to be a loa spirit from Voodoo culture. This man’s son Jean-Claude succeeded him after his 1971 death. For the point, name this dictator of Haiti.---A race riot in this state was instigated by Charles B. Aycock, who was later elected governor of this state with the help of the “Secret Nine.” Clarence “Curly” Harris refused to serve protesting students in this state, where Alfred Waddell burned down The Daily Record, a newspaper owned by African-American Alexander Manly, during an 1898 race riot. Black students from A&T University conducted a protest at a Woolworth’s counter in, for the point, what state, the site of the 1989 Wilmington insurrection and the Greensboro sit-in?---Jacques Benveniste’s experiments with antibodies indicated this substance had a namesake “memory,” a ﬁnding that could not be replicated with double-blind experiments led by Nature editor John Maddox. Nathan Zohner called this substance an “unrecognized killer” in a 1997 study that assessed the gullibility of high school students. The Fleischmann-Pons experiment erroneously claimed that products of cold fusion were made by the electrolysis of a “heavy” type of this substance composed of deuterium and oxygen. “Dihydrogen monoxide” is a supposedly “scary” name for, for the point, what liquid that NASA hopes to ﬁnd on Mars?---This battle was supposed to be won with the Hagen Plan, which was never put into action. The sectors of Georgette, Gneisenau, and Blucher-Yorck were targeted during this battle, which began with stormtroopers sneaking past enemy lines in Operation Michael. Erich Ludendorﬀ was the planner of this oﬀensive, which was known as the Kaiserschlacht in Germany and culminated in the Second Battle of the Marne. For the point, name this 1918 oﬀensive named for the season in which it took place.---A prominent musician claimed that if this city’s Stavisky riots prevented her students from attending their private lessons, they weren’t cut out for music anyway. The composer of Pell´eas et M´elisande was denied a public funeral in this city due to bombing in World War I. A 1926 visit to Maurice Ravel inspired George Gershwin to include taxi horns in a concerto titled An American in this city. The Rite of Spring infamously premiered in, for the point, what home of Nadia Boulanger and Claude Debussy, the French capital city?---Francis Hopkinson helped revitalize a society that this man founded with members of his Leather Apron Club. This founder of the American Philosophical Society hired Lewis Timothy as the ﬁrst librarian in America. Temperance and silence are among the thirteen virtues described in this man’s autobiography. The glass harmonica and bifocals were among the inventions of, for the point, what Philadelphia Founding Father, the ﬁrst U.S. Ambassador to France?---The Newport controversially slipped past the Aigle, taking the record of being the ﬁrst vessel to pass through this waterway. Plans for this waterway to change hands were made during the Protocol of Sevres. Because of the dust they accumulated, a ﬂeet of ships trapped by the closure of this waterway became known as the “Yellow Fleet.” Anthony Eden was forced to resign after authorizing a paratrooper attack on this waterway. Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized, for the point, what Egyptian waterway that links the Mediterranean and Red Seas?---This man’s policies were written on wooden tablets known as axones so that no one would be unaware of them. The Council of Four Hundred was originally established by this man through the usage of lots. This man became one of the ﬁrst to punish homicide and manslaughter diﬀerently, though he prescribed death as a punishment for stealing cabbage. Solon would later repeal most of the laws passed by, for the point, what infamously harsh 7th century BC Athenian lawmaker?---This author discussed his trips to the Gulf of California with marine biologist Ed Ricketts in the book The Log from the Sea of Cortez, and he depicted the life of the pirate Henry Morgan in his ﬁrst novel, Cup of Gold. A character becomes a fugitive after seeing Jim Casy killed for leading a strike at a peach orchard during the Dust Bowl in another novel by this man. Tom Joad and his family ﬂee Oklahoma in, for the point, what American author’s The Grapes of Wrath ? Steinbeck---This diplomat convinced Georgia to become a protectorate in the Treaty of Georgoviesk. Tauride Palace was constructed to celebrate this ﬁgure’s diplomatic feats. The Black Sea Fleet was created by this man after his conquest of the Crimea. This man was responsible for founding the city of Sevastopol, but was accused of creating fake villages in the Ukraine in order to impress the tsarina. For the point, name this lover of Catherine the Great who was the namesake of a Russian warship whose men mutinied in 1905.---In this conﬂict, Henry Pate was captured at the Battle of Black Jack and subsequently exchanged for the winning commander’s two imprisoned sons. Sharps riﬂes known as “Beecher’s Bibles” were delivered during this conﬂict. Failed attempts to resolve this conﬂict included the Lecompton Constitution and Topeka Constitution. John Brown perpetrated the Pottawatomie Massacre during, for the point, what 1850s conﬂict in which border ruﬃans and free-staters fought over a popular sovereignty vote in a Midwest state?---This dynasty’s founder executed the chancellor Hu Weiyong and established the Embroidered Uniform Guard police to secure power. After achieving victory at the Battle of Lake Poyang, Hongwu was able to establish this dynasty at the end of the Red Turban Rebellion. This dynasty expanded its inﬂuence by sending Zheng He on several voyages to Africa. For the point, name this dynasty that became the last ethnic Chinese dynasty when it replaced the Yuan.---This ruler was almost killed by James Hadﬁeld at the Drury Lane Theatre. This ruler’s prime minister, Lord Bute, faced rumors of an aﬀair with this king’s mother. A Chancellor of the Exchequer under this king names a set of laws that included the Vice Admiralty Courts Act. Charles Townshend served this ruler, whose other prime ministers included George Grenville and Lord North. For the point, name this king of England who suﬀered from porphyria and ruled during the American Revolution.---The most decorated unit in US military history, the 442nd Regiment, was almost solely comprised of this ethnic group during World War II. A Gentlemen’s Agreement between two governments allowed this ethnic group to immigrate to the US, bypassing the Chinese Exclusion Act. The Supreme Court aﬃrmed the ability to persecute these people in Korematsu v. United States. For the point, name this ethnic minority that was imprisoned in American internment camps during World War II. Japanese-Americans---A governor of this state was the chair of the Democratic National Committee when Barack Obama won the presidency in 2008. A public health insurance program in this state is called “Dr. Dynasaur.” This state was once governed by a man whose odd scream after the Iowa caucus hurt his 2004 presidential campaign. This state, once led by Howard Dean, is home to the longest-serving independent in congressional history, a man who won 23 Democratic primaries and caucuses in 2016. For the point, name this New England state represented by Senators Patrick Leahy and Bernie Sanders.---This ideology was targeted in Operation Steeplechase, which imprisoned 20,000 suspects in an attempt to ﬂush out the Naxalite movement. The Plain of Jars archaeological site was bombed during a “Secret War” against this ideology. Chin Peng’s attempt to spread this ideology prompted the Malayan Emergency. Parties that adopted this ideology include the Pathet Lao and Khmer Rouge. For the point, name this political ideology that advocates for a proletariat revolution and was practiced by Mao Zedong.---These men were known for carrying a large vessel known as the Kazan pot during the communal pilav meal. These men were rivals of the Sipahi, who helped Mahmud II disband this group in the Auspicious Incident in 1826. These men were recruited via the devshirme system, in which Christian boys would be kidnapped from their homes as a blood tax. For the point, name this elite unit of Ottoman infantrymen. Janissary corps (accept Janissaries; prompt on descriptions of Christian Ottoman soldiers)---Followers of this man murdered Rebecca Vaughan and her family. The eruption of Mount Saint Helens caused a blueish-green solar eclipse that this man took as a divine message. Thomas Ruﬃn Gray used conversations in a jail cell to write The Confessions of this man. In his work Children of Darkness, Stephen Oates claims that this man gave an order to “kill all the white people” to begin a raid through Southampton County, Virginia. For the point, name this leader of an 1831 slave rebellion.---This book contains the Song of the Sea, believed to be one of the oldest portions of the Bible. In this book, a man ﬂees to Midian after killing a slavedriver. This book, whose central ﬁgure is told to remove his sandals when he approaches the Burning Bush, details ten plagues on Egypt that occur when Pharaoh refuses to release the Hebrews. Archaeologists have found little evidence in the Sinai region to support the historicity of, for the point, what second book of the Old Testament, which describes Moses leading the Israelites out of Egypt? Exodus---This man popularized the theory of revolutionary defeatism after heading the leftist faction at the Zimmerwald Conference. This man, who developed the concept of democratic centralism to keep party unity, split with Julius Martov over disagreements about the role of the professional revolutionary. This man theorized how a socialist state would develop in his book The State and the Revolution. The Provisional Government was overthrown by, for the point, what Bolshevik leader who led the ﬁrst Soviet government?---
Iditarod Trail (accept Seward-to-Nome Trail before “Seward” is read)---Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor (prompt on Henry)---Latin (prompt on “language” before mentioned; prompt on “grammar” by asking the player “in what language?”)---Yitzhak Rabin---Lady Jane Grey (accept Jane Dudley) Page 1 ---Zambezi River---US presidential election of 1936---Denver---Kansas City Chiefs (accept either or both names)---Page 2 ---Incan Empire (accept Incas)---Franc¸ois Duvalier (accept Papa Doc Duvalier; prompt on Duvalier)---North Carolina---water (accept dihydrogen monoxide before read)---Spring Oﬀensive(s) (accept Ludendorﬀ Oﬀensive before mentioned; accept Kaiserschlacht Oﬀensive before mentioned) Page 3 ---Paris---Benjamin Franklin---Suez Canal---Draco---John Page 4 ---Grigory Potemkin---Bleeding Kansas---Ming Dynasty---George III (prompt on “George”)---Page 5 ---Vermont---Communism (accept word forms)------Nat Turner---Book of Page 6 ---Vladimir Lenin (or Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov) Page 7---