Nats---False---104
Howard Beale suggested that this period was born out of politicians’ exploitative desires. The sitting president during this period was labeled a racist by Kenneth Stampp, who portrayed his opponents as noble crusaders. William Archibald Dunning led a school of thought about this period which condemned this period as “the nadir of national disgrace.” This period was termed “America’s Unﬁnished Revolution” by Eric Foner, who argues against the historical treatment of this period that blamed scalawags and carpetbaggers for its failings. For the point, name this period of American history, during which the South was brought back within the Union after the Civil War.---Four years after this event, its victim complained that the perpetrator broke rules by not ensuring blue sky below his target. The 78-year-old victim of this incident suﬀered a heart attack three days later, as a shot pellet had lodged near his heart, though most of his injuries were to the face and neck. For the point, name this 2006 accident in which quail hunter Harry Whittington was injured which, after Aaron Burr’s duel, is the second shooting accident to involve a sitting American Vice President.---Victor Ostrovsky claimed that the charges against this man were doctored by the Israelis in retaliation for this man’s criticism of the invasion of Lebanon. This man helped organize Paul McCartney concerts in Cambodia to help the region recover from Pol Pot. This man claimed that he was not aware of the Jasenovac concentration camp while serving in the Balkans during Operation Kozara. Despite the revelation that this man served as an interpreter for Army Group E in the Wehrmacht, this man became President of Austria in 1986. For the point, name this fourth Secretary-General of the UN.---Vladimir Lenin’s older brother was hanged for plotting the death of one ruler of this name on the sixth anniversary of the assassination of another ruler of this name by the Narodnaya Volya. In an accident near Borki Station, one ruler with this name held up a collapsed train roof to help his children escape. Alaska was sold to the U.S. by the second tsar of this name, and the Decembrist revolt broke out after the death of the ﬁrst tsar of this name. For the point, give this name shared by three Romanov tsars, including the emancipator of the serfs.---After this battle, the message “we will never leave Mike Durant” was repeatedly broadcast. The goal of this battle was to capture the warlord Mohammed Farah Aidid. Randy Shughart received a posthumous Medal of Honor for defending the pilot of Super Six-Four, one of two helicopters that crashed during this battle. For the point, name this 1993 battle, the subject of Black Hawk Down, in which 18 American soldiers were killed in the capital of Somalia.---This man served as the only chair of the short-lived Senate Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs. He noted “This chamber reeks of blood” before opening the voting on his amendment, co-sponsored by Mark Hatﬁeld, that would have put a deadline on military operations in Vietnam. This man’s initial Vice Presidential running mate, Thomas Eagleton, was controversially dropped and replaced with Sargent Shriver; that gaﬀe cost this Democrat every state but Massachusetts. For the point, name this South Dakota senator who lost the 1972 Presidential election to Richard Nixon.---In a ﬁlm depiction of this battle, a general says “Don’t hurry. Let the [...] wedge close in. Let Buslai engage them” as a white-robed army approaches. Sergei Eisenstein depicted this battle in a 1938 ﬁlm that fostered a legend that many Livonian soldiers fell and drowned here. For the point, name this 1242 battle, a victory for Prince of Novgorod Alexander Nevsky over a branch of the Teutonic Knights that took place on the frozen Lake Peipus.---One head of this organization drafted the Worldwide Attack Matrix, and its predecessor was led by “Wild Bill” Donovan. This organization’s Sidney Gottlieb gave people LSD in Project MKULTRA. The downfalls of Jacobo Arbenz and Mohammed Mossadegh were orchestrated by this organization, which operated an aircraft whose pilot refused to use a suicide pill after crashing near Yekaterinburg. Gary Powers ﬂew a U-2 plane for, for the point, what U.S. government agency that succeeded the OSS in its mission of spying on foreign powers?---An eagle led Cimon to this mythical ﬁgure’s grave. He became the ruler of Eleusis after killing the former king Cercyon in a wrestling match. He met his end after being thrown oﬀ a cliﬀ by King Lycomedes. The descendants of this ﬁgure supposedly had smaller buttocks after he escaped the Chair of Forgetfulness, but he had to leave his friend Pirithous behind in the underworld. For the point, name this mythical king of Athens who used Ariadne’s string to escape the Labyrinth after slaying the Minotaur.---This man had an African slave scrub his own skin to prove that he was not covered in ink; that event was recounted in the letters of Luis Frois. This man’s conﬂict with Saito Dosan ended with his marriage to Saito’s daughter Lady Nohime [no-HEE-may]. This man was forced to commit seppuku after being betrayed by Akechi Mitsuhide at Honno-ji. For the point, name this ﬁrst of Japan’s Three Great Uniﬁers, a leader who employed Toyotomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu. Oda Nobunaga---This man forced his enemies to withdraw to Castle William after falsely boasting about the size of his army. That incident occurred when this man’s ship Liberty was seized following a dispute over a wine shipment. This ﬁrst governor of an independent Massachusetts was closely aligned with Samuel Adams, and neither of them were pardoned by Thomas Gage following the Boston Tea Party. For the point, name this chair of the Continental Congress who legendarily wanted to aid King George III’s troubled vision by signing the Declaration of Independence in exceptionally large print.---This man was made surveyor-general of victualling during the Second Anglo-Dutch War. He used a form of shorthand known as tachygraphy [tacky-graphy], and employed several foreign languages when describing aﬀairs with women such as Deborah Willet. He wrote about using tobacco to ward oﬀ the Great Plague and described ascending the Tower of London to witness the “lamentable” Great Fire of London. For the point, name this Londoner who chronicled everyday life from 1660 to 1669 in his extensive diary.---This treaty provided for the religious freedom of the Sephardi Jews. Despite the success of Jacques Massu in maintaining civilian order, the harsh tactics he used helped push forward this treaty. One signatory to this treaty was granted usage of the naval base and underground nuclear testing facility at Mers el Kebir. Though it was opposed by the right-wing OAS, this treaty was signed by the FLN and the government of Charles de Gaulle. For the point, name this 1962 treaty that ended the Algerian War of Independence. ´---The knowledge of a tunnel underneath an embassy was used as evidence that this crime was committed by a man who used the code name “Ramon Garcia.” Another perpetrator of this crime married a Colombian woman and claimed that the staggering jump in his apparent income came from her family. Victor Cherkashin handled the former perpetrator of this treasonous oﬀense, who was caught taping a garbage bag of classiﬁed documents to a footbridge and arrested in 2001. For the point, name this crime committed by Aldrich Ames and Robert Hanssen, who divulged the identities of numerous CIA double agents to the KGB.---TEU Article 50 deals with the legality of this cause. Nigel Farage is a staunch proponent of this cause. Citing a desire to prevent the erosion of democracy, Boris Johnson came out in favour of this cause in February 2016. It will be settled on June 23rd following a promise by David Cameron to hold a referendum. For the point, name this cause championed by UKIP, the UK Independent Party, that involves leaving a European community based in Brussels. exiting the European Union (accept Brexit)---A document found near the site of this event is addressed “To Boddah” and ends by quoting Neil Young’s lyric “it’s better to burn out than to fade away.” This event was the subject of private detective Tom Grant’s ﬁlm Soaked in Bleach. It nearly happened a month earlier in Rome, which was noted at the end of the documentary Montage of Heck. After this event, Sweet 75 was formed by Krist Novoselic, while Dave Grohl formed Foo Fighters. Courtney Love questioned whether this event was a murder. For the point, name this 1994 event in which the frontman of Nirvana ended his life.---Near the end of this event, a leader wrote that “You can be sure that we will resist with determination, whatever the case,” noting that an attack was “almost imminent.” The “Armageddon Letter” was written by Fidel Castro during this event, shortly before a concession to remove Jupiter installations from Turkey placated Nikita Khrushchev. In its aftermath, the Moscow-to-Washington hotline was created. For the point, name this event in which, over 13 days in October 1962, the Soviets and Americans nearly instigated a nuclear war over the deployment of Soviet nukes in the Caribbean.---Albrecht von Wallenstein’s greatest victory took place in one of these locations named Dessau. A famous painting of the battle of Arcole shows Napoleon with a French standard at one of these locations, and the battle of Luding was fought at one of these locations during the Long March. The Earl of Surrey retreated to Berwick after being defeated by William Wallace at one of these locations named Stirling, and Harold Hadrada was killed at a battle named for one of these locations at Stamford. For the point, name these structures that include the Golden Gate.---This art movement’s founder also founded the political party PPF, which was absorbed into its country’s burgeoning PNF just a year later. A work from this movement blurred the legs of a dachshund to demonstrate the title Dynamism of a Dog on a Leash. The manifesto of this movement declared a “racing car” to be “more beautiful than the Victory of Samothrace” and was written by Filippo Marinetti. For the point, name this 20th-century Italian art movement that gloriﬁed speed and technology.---This man’s trek from Indiana to Florida was recounted in his “A Thousand Miles to the Gulf.” The Lone Pines earthquake helped lend credibility to this man’s theory on the formation of the Owens Valley. He broke with Giﬀord Pinchot following a disagreement over logging and grazing in forest reserves. This opponent of the damming of the Hetch Hetchy reservoir was notably photographed overlooking Glacier Point alongside Theodore Roosevelt in Yosemite National Park. For the point, name this naturalist and founder of the Sierra Club. Muir---A video of the late Paul Lorieau performing this action was played at the April 2016 farewell to Rexall Place. In October 2014, this action was done at the Consol Energy Center, even though the Penguins were playing the Flyers, in honor of the victims of the Parliament Hall shooting. Unlike a similar action performed in America, fans often sing along with this action. For the point, name this patriotic performance, which ends with the line “we stand on guard for thee!” and is often followed by calls to “drop the puck.”---This conﬂict was preceded by the Orlov rebellion and encouraged by the “Friendly Society.” George Canning helped organize one intervention in this conﬂict through the Treaty of London, and it was ended by the Treaty of Constantinople. The Pruth River was crossed by Alexander Ypsilantis in this conﬂict, which included a massacre at Chios and the naval battle of Navarino. For the point, name this conﬂict in which revolutionaries on the Peloponnese fought the Ottoman Empire.---This man’s most notable deed was recorded within the Catalan Atlas. This man waged war against the Mossi peoples, where he was served by the general Sagmandia. Djingeureber Mosque was built by this man’s architect as-Saheli, as was Sankore University. Maghan succeeded this man whose most notable action saw him travel through Cairo and Medina while legendarily handing out large amounts of golden coins. For the point, name this king of Mali known for his extravagant hajj to Mecca.---During the War of 1812, this man called a proposed conscription law “despotism embraced in its worst form.” In 1836, he won 14 electoral votes as one of four Whig Party presidential candidates. Ralph Waldo Emerson criticized this man’s “profound selﬁshness” after he voted for the Compromise of 1850. This man, who proclaimed “Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!”, signed a treaty with British diplomat Lord Ashburton. For the point, name this Massachusetts Whig senator who, with Clay and Calhoun, dominated the Senate in the 19th century.---Charles Ives’ second piece in this form has movements dedicated to Emerson and Thoreau and is subtitled “Concord.” The second of these pieces by Frederic Chopin, in B ﬂat minor, contains a funeral march that was played at the funerals of JFK and Leonid Brezhnev. Mozart’s eleventh of these pieces for piano ends with a march that imitated Janissary bands, the Rondo alla Turca. For the point, name these multi-movement works for solo piano that include Beethoven’s “Moonlight.”---One man with this title was converted to Catholicism by Pedro Paenz, who later was succeeded by the insolent Alfonso Mendes. That man with this title was Susenyos I, who was a part of the Gondarian line. Seven years after the Shewan line gained control of this title, its leader defeated the Italians at Adowa. Another person to hold this title is venerated as the messiah in Rastafarianism. Menelik II and other members of the Solomonic Dynasty held, for the point, what ruling position over an African country, last held in 1975 by Haile Selassie?---Intellectuals grew support for this event in the Petoﬁ Circle. It was triggered by the rejection of the Sixteen Points and began next to a statue of Joz´ef Bem. This event largely stemmed from problems ´ created by M´aty´as R´akosi and the AHV and was put down by Operation Whirlwind. Cardinal Mindszenty was freed from political prison during this event, and Jan´os K´adar was oﬀered safe passage from the Yugoslav embassy, but Imre Nagy [nahj] was still executed after this event failed. For the point, name this event in which protesters fought Soviet tanks in the streets of Budapest.---Prior to this battle, a case of dermatitis sidelined a leader of the eventual winning side. Raymond Spruance and Frank Fletcher teamed up in this battle, which occurred at objective AF, as the breaking of JN-25b predicted. On the second day of this battle, the carriers Akagi and Hiryu sank, though it resulted in the decommissioning of the USS Yorktown. For the point, name this battle in which Chester Nimitz halted Isoroku Yamamoto’s advance, turning the momentum of the Paciﬁc Theater.---A controversy involving this man arose after retired serviceman Tim Terpak was honored at a New York Rangers game. In an interview in Stars and Stripes magazine, this man claimed not to have heard that three Chinooks were actually an hour ahead of him. In Febraury 2015, he retracted his false claims about having been in a helicopter that was hit by an RPG in Iraq. For the point, name this journalist who was replaced by Lester Holt, a decade after this man replaced Tom Brokaw as anchor of NBC Nightly News.---John Alcock and Arthur Brown received a Daily Mail Prize for performing this action. Ren´e Fonck’s attempt to perform this action ended with the deaths of Charles Clavier and Jacob Sclaroﬀ, in part due to Fonck’s insistence on bringing a refrigerator and sofa. The Orteig Prize was established for any Allied pilot that could perform this action, which was ﬁrst completed on May 21, 1927. For the point, what action was completed by The Spirit of St. Louis, for the ﬁrst time without breaks or a co-pilot, by Charles Lindbergh? transatlantic ﬂight (accept descriptions of crossing the Atlantic Ocean by plane; prompt---In one election, this president exacerbated a split in his party by joining with the “quids.” As governor of Virginia, this man dealt with the revolt of Gabriel Prosser. The acquisition of Florida occurred in this president’s tenure via the Adams-Onis Treaty. This promulgator of the Clark Memorandum and Roosevelt Corollary oversaw the Era of Good Feelings, and he was succeeded by James Madison. For the point, name this ﬁfth President of the United States.---This disease’s Vollum strain was isolated on Gruinard Island. The largest recorded outbreak of this disease devastated the cattle population during the Rhodesian Bush War. Bruce Edward Ivins was largely suspected of sending samples of this disease to Senators Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy with the message “Death to America, death to Israel, Allah is great.” For the point, name this diseased spread by spores that was stored in envelopes during various 2001 terrorist attacks, frequently used as a bioweapon.---The 1895 case Sparf v. US ruled that these groups of people do not have to be told that they have the right of nulliﬁcation. In Williams v. Florida ruled that the size of these groups of people is ﬂexible, though Ballew v. Georgia determined 5 to be too small. These groups are to be “impartial” according to the Sixth Amendment, which guarantees access to one of these groups in all criminal trials. For the point, name these groups of people, usually 12, who are tasked with rendering verdicts.---The myth that this person was buried between platforms 9 and 10 in King’s Cross station inspired J.K. Rowling. This leader’s army was encircled by their own families and unable to retreat in a defeat at the hands of Gaius Suetonius Paulinus at the Battle of Watling Street. This ruler led the Iceni and Trinovantes tribes in burning down Camulodunum. Tacitus and Cassius Dio disagree on whether this woman committed suicide after her defeat near present-day London. For the point, name this queen of the Iceni tribe who revolted against Rome during Nero’s reign.---Legendarily, the Roman Stoic Epictetus claimed he would rather die than lose this possession, which deﬁned him as a philosopher. A satirical treatise by the Roman emperor Julian the Apostate opposed these things, which were partly destroyed in a Spartan punishment for cowards. According to Cassius Dio, Hadrian was the ﬁrst Roman emperor to consistently maintain this aesthetic item. For the point, name this appendage long-prized on older Greek men but long-deprecated in Rome, a type of facial hair. beard---This man’s philanthropic eﬀorts included founding a School of Music in his home city of Rochester, New York. This man, who suﬀered from spinal pain late in life, wrote a suicide note reading “To my friends: my work is done. Why wait?” This man’s company, founded on the strength of David Houston’s patent for a roll ﬁlm holder, ﬁled for bankruptcy in 2012, having failed to adjust to digital photography. For the point, name this entrepreneur who founded Kodak.---
Reconstruction---Dick Cheney’s hunting accident (accept descriptions of “that time Dick Cheney shot a guy”)---Kurt Waldheim---Alexander---Battle of Mogadishu Page 1 ---George McGovern---Battle of (or on) the Ice (accept Battle of Lake Peipus before said)---Central Intelligence Agency---Theseus---Page 2 ---John Hancock---Samuel Pepys ([PEEPS], but be lenient)---Evian Accords---spying for Russia and/or the Soviet Union or USSR (accept equivalent descriptions, like double agent for the Russians; prompt on descriptions of espionage that don’t mention “for being a Russia;” prompt on treason before mentioned)---United Kingdom (or Great Britain or England) Page 3 ---death of Kurt Cobain (accept suicide or equivalents; accept shooting or equivalents)---Cuban Missile Crisis (accept October Crisis or Caribbean Crisis early; accept equivalents for crisis)---Bridges---futurismo---John Page 4 ---singing/playing the Canadian national anthem at a hockey game (or singing/playing O Canada)---Greek War of Independence (or equivalent descriptions)---Mansa Musa---Daniel Webster---piano sonatas Page 5 ---Emperor of Ethiopia (accept negusa nagast; prompt on “King of Kings”)---Hungarian Revolution of 1956 (accept descriptions of a Hungarian armed conﬂict in 1956; prompt on partial answers)---Battle of Midway---Brian Williams---on partial answers) Page 6 ---James Monroe---anthrax (or bacillus anthracis)---jury (do not accept grand jury)---Boudica---Page 7 ---George Eastman Page 8---