Nats---False---111
Detailing this event, journalist Euclides da Cunha [[coon-YAH]] wrote Rebellion in the Backlands, which painted the oppressed Sertãnejos [[sehr-tao-NEH-hohss]] in a sympathetic light. British-manufactured cannons known as the matadeiras, or "Killers," proved vital in breaking a siege of the town of Belo Monte during this conflict. Over 15,000 displaced Black, Indigenous, and mestizo people died in this conflict after the namesake village, led by Antonio the Counselor, was overrun by the Brazilian army. The First Brazilian Republic quashed, for the point, what late 19th century rebellion in the Bahia state?---During this event, which shares its name with similar events in France and Russia, Antonio Vallejo-Nájera [[vah-YEH-hoh NAH-heh-rah]] carried out medical experiments on prisoners to “establish the bio-psych roots of Marxism.” The perpetrators of this event were motivated by the right-wing notion of limpieza social [[leem-PYEH-zah soh-SYAL]] or "social cleansing." For the point, name this period of mass murders and political repression which took place under the regime of Generalissimo Francisco Franco during and after the Spanish Civil War.---Immediately following this uprising, much of the territory known as the Xiyu, or the "Western Region" in the Tarim Basin, gained independence. The namesake of this rebellion supposedly dressed a baby in a mock adoption presided over by his possible lover Yang Guifei. Poet Li Bai was exiled for his support of the perpetrators of this rebellion, while the Uighur intervention led to the downfall of its Yan Dynasty. An attempt to overthrow Emperor Xuanzong [[ZHWAHN-ZONG]] of Tang occurred during, for the point, what 8th Century rebellion by a namesake Turkic general?---In this city, Bernhard Krechting was hung from an iron basket suspended from St. Lambert’s Church. Bernhard Knipperdolling was installed as mayor of this city following an Anabaptist rebellion led by John of Leiden. This was the alphabetically first of two cities where an agreement was negotiated that transferred religious authority from Ferdinand III to the Imperial States. Along with Osnabrück, this city was the site of the 1648 treaty ending the Thirty Years’ War. For the point, name this city in Westphalia.---According to legend, Buddhism was introduced to this kingdom by Preceptor Ado, after which it became the state religion. This kingdom employed well-dressed men known as "Flowering Knights." This kingdom was overseen by the Council of Nobles, which was composed of men of rank Jingol or higher. This kingdom implemented the caste-like bone- rank system. This kingdom united a peninsula by defeating the Baekje [[BAHK-JAY]] and Goguryeo, ending the Three Kingdoms Period. For the point, name this Korean kingdom that was overthrown by the Goryeo.---Horace Greeley once stated that this man was the greatest ever writer of “breviers” in the New York Tribune’s history. While Ambassador to the United Kingdom, this man originated the phrase “splendid little war.” The Clayton-Bulwer treaty was nullified by an agreement co-named for this man, who called for “spheres of influence” in China as part of the Open Door Policy. A treaty signed by this man and Lord Pauncefote helped provide a legal basis for building the Panama Canal. For the point, name this Secretary of State under William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt.---This speech notes that with the exception of "the malcontents of Madison Square Garden," the previous decade in America was “not terrible.” This speech recalls a meeting with a group of “tough, hearty men” in New Hampshire before stating, “They are our people. And we need to reconnect with them." Given on August 17, 1992, this speech urged listeners to “take back our country.” For the point, identify this speech by paleoconservative Pat Buchanan.---Mark Twain and the “argot of… waiters” inspired a text by this man examining “the Development of English in the United States.” This author of The American Language was disturbed by the widespread acceptance of his fully fictional history of the bathtub. The term “Bible Belt” was supposedly coined by this writer known for his reporting at The Sun. This “Sage of Baltimore” suggested that Clarence Darrow defend a teacher in a case that this man referred to as the “Monkey Trial." For the point, name this influential American essayist and journalist.---When speaking to William of Rubruck, this man claimed that "Just as God gave different fingers to the hand so has He given different ways to men.” This son of Sorghaghtani [[sor-gag-TAH-nee]] attended a kurultai at Ala Qamaq [[kah-MAK]] that was organized by Batu, who partnered with this man to defeat the Hungarians at the Battle of Mohi. This ruler from the Toluid line subjected merchants to taxation and paid nobles in salaries as part of his administrative reform efforts. For the point, name this fourth khagan of the Mongol Empire who conquered Iraq and Syria, and was succeeded by Kublai.---While serving as governor of Gaul, this man defeated an Alemanni confederation led by High King Chnodomar [[KNO-doh-mar]] during the Battle of Strasbourg. This man was the last Roman emperor to undertake Eleusinian [[eh-loo-SIH-nee-en]] Mysteries in an effort to promote Neoplatonic Hellenism. This man, who succeeded Constantius II, wrote the treatise "Against the Galileans" and attempted to undermine one faith by building the Third Temple of Jerusalem for the Jewish people. For the point, name this short-ruling, anti- Christian Roman Emperor of the 4th century who was known as the "Apostate."---This dentist was appointed as the Minister of Health under the leadership of Saparmurat Niyazov. Following Niyazov’s death, this man assumed the presidency, and his first trip abroad included participating in the umrah and meeting with King Abdullah. Using the honorific Arkadag, this man has been labeled one of the worst dictators in the world, and he won his third election in 2017 with 98 percent of the vote. For the point, name this man who assumed office as president of Turkmenistan in 2007.---Description acceptable. Six days after this event, Winston Moseley was arrested during a house burglary and confessed to this crime. The victim of this event lived in Kew Gardens. In 2016, fifty-two years after this event, the New York Times reported on their own article stating that this event was seen by thirty-eight eyewitnesses who otherwise remained inactive, calling it "grossly exaggerated." For the point, name this killing that was dubiously covered in national media, leading to studies of the "bystander effect."---A trio of Norwegian artists created a "hand-mouth" sculpture dedicated to this philosopher in Skjolden [[SKYOL-den]]. According to an unlikely theory proposed by Laurence Goldstein, Adolf Hitler may have interacted with this thinker as a child, inspiring his antisemitism. During the Haidbauer incident, this thinker struck an eleven year old student so hard he was knocked unconscious. In one book, this philosopher used the duck- rabbit optical illusion to illustrate family resemblances. For the point, name this Austrian philosopher, the author of Philosophical Investigations and Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.---After taking power in a coup, this man initiated an “ethical revolution” that involved a first phase of enforcing orderliness in bus queues. The aforementioned "War Against Indiscipline" was led by the military government of this man who is the leader of the All Progressives Congress. In a failed 2003 campaign this man was defeated by Olusegun Obasanjo. He succeeded a member of the Ijaw people, a Christian named Goodluck Jonathan. A former fighter in the Biafran War, for the point, which politician became president of Nigeria in 2015?---This director employed Martin Scorsese to star as Vincent van Gogh in a late film divided into eight vignettes titled Dreams. A lord banishes his youngest son at the start of a 1985 film by this director based on King Lear. This director’s film The Hidden Fortress was a major influence on Star Wars. The main characters of a film by this director of Ran are paid in rice for protecting villagers from bandits. For the point, name this Japanese director of Seven Samurai.---Thor Heyerdahl travelled from Morocco to this nation in a two month journey on the papyrus boat Ra II to prove Egyptians could have reached the New World. This non-U.S. nation has a Creole language which mixes the pidgin of Gullah with British English, and this island nation's Parish of Saint Philip was the site of a slave revolt led by West African Bussa. Sugar exports from this nation in the Windward Islands were supposedly worth more money than all the exports of the Thirteen Colonies combined. The City of Bridgetown serves as the capital of, for the point, what Caribbean island?---In the Declaration of Arbroath, local barons sent a memorandum asking Pope John XXII [[the twenty-second]] to lift his excommunication of their king during this conflict. One king during this conflict stabbed his traitorous cousin John Comyn [[KUH-min]] in the Dumfries [[DUM-frees]] Incident after he married the opposing side's princess Joan de Valence. Edward I chose John Balliol as the next in line to a neighboring throne, leading to this war. The Battle of Bannockburn concluded, for the point, what war which included William Wallace's victory at Stirling Bridge?---Composer and type of Composition needed. Leopold's coronation as King of Bohemia led to the premiere of the last of these specific works, la Clemenza di Tito, which concerns the end of the reign of Vespasian. Another of these works depicts two husbands dressed up as mustachioed Albanian soldiers attempting to woo their lovers, Fiordiligi [[fee- OR-dee-LEE-jee]] and Dorabella, in an attempt to win a bet against Don Alfonso. Set in Seville, a third of these works concern a "day of madness" in the residence of the Count of Almaviva. Cosi fan Tutti and The Marriage of Figaro make up two of, for the point, what type of works by a German composer?---This non-Bohemian royal faced a revolution of nobles called the "Praguerie" [[prah- geh-REE]] instigated by the Duke of Bourbon after this king attempted to curb the anarchy in his realm. This king's seizure of the land of John, the Count of Armagnac [[arm-mahn- YOK]], led to his son Louis the Spider having to fight the League of the Public Weal five years later. This king, who usurped the French crown from English king Henry VI, elevated the victor of Orleans, Joan of Arc, to the rank of general. For the point, name this "Victorious" King of France who won the Hundred Years War.---At a grand opening of one of this company's projects, Daniel Webster occasionally stood up from a rocking chair to give speeches. A 1938 court case involving this company found that diversity jurisdiction cases must apply state law when not in conflict with federal law. Jay Gould triumphed in a competition involving Daniel Drew and Cornelius Vanderbilt to gain control of this company, the subject of the Tompkins case. This company was created to connect a city on the Hudson River to its namesake body. For the point, name this New York railroad named for a lake.---A group of these people who inhabited the Vaunage and Cévennes regions may have been named after the “night attack” tactics they used to raise resistance in one campaign. That group was known as the Camisards. Charles IX [[the ninth]] was advised by a leader of these people named Gaspard de Coligny [[kah-lin-YEE]], whose death occurred during the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. Members of this group often followed Calvinist doctrine. For the point, the Edict of Nantes granted a number of rights to what group of French Protestants?---Jean-Baptiste Colbert passed the congés [[cohn-JAY]] to tax New World men in this occupation, which led to its decline and move towards a more structured business model. While in this occupation, future Hudson's Bay Company founder Pierre-Esprit Radisson was captured by the Mohawk, who taught him their native tongue and elevated him to a role as interpreter. While working in this occupation amongst the Hidatsa people, Toussaint Charbonneau [[shar-bah-NOH]] met his wife Sacagawea, later joining the Corps of Discovery. For the point, name these French-Canadian fur traders of the 1600 and 1700s whose name literally means "Runner of the Woods."---One of the namesakes in this case was involved in another case in which Alvin Ford thought he was Pope John Paul III. The accused in this case was acquitted after Henry Cook's testimony was found unreliable by W. Fred Turner. This case arose after the burglary of the Bay Harbor Pool Room in Panama City, and this case overturned Betts v. Brady. Abe Fortas argued against Bruce Jacob in this case, which ruled that states were required to provide public defenders. For the point, name this landmark 1963 Supreme Court case.---Taxes on households brought on to fund this conflict directly led to Pennsylvania's Fries's [[FREEZES]] Rebellion, with the namesake auctioneer being charged with treason using the recently passed Alien and Sedition Acts. The Convention of 1800 and the eventual Louisiana Purchase led to normalization of relations between the two nations fighting in this conflict. The XYZ Affair and French privateers attacking American merchants led to, for the point, what undeclared conflict of the late 18th century?---The often misleading work The Travels of John Mandeville claimed this historical man ruled the island of Kos and was later turned into a hundred foot dragon by Diana. Maimonides published a “Commentary on the Aphorisms of" this man using translations by scholar Hunain Ibn Yitzchak [[yeht-ZAHK]]. Working off the research of Alcmaeon [[al-kah- MAY-on]] of Croton, this polymath codified the theory of the Four Humors in the ancient world. For the point, name this Ancient Greek physician who names an "Oath" still taken by modern physicians.---An admiral in this battle had himself tied to the rigging of theTecumseh to better see a bombardment of a rebel fort. The actions of General Richard Page during this battle, like spiking his own cannons and emptying his gunpowder into a nearby reservoir during a siege of Fort Morgan, led to his court martial. At this battle, the presence of naval mines led Rear Admiral David Farragut to say "Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead." For the point, name this Civil War naval battle off the coast of an Alabama port city.---During this conflict, a set of agreements that allowed for the occupation of fortresses came to be known as the Barrier Treaties. One country's national citizenship was set in place by the Nueva Planta Decrees signed after this conflict, in which the Holy Roman Empire and France stopped fighting after signing an agreement in Baden. The Treaty of Rastatt was signed during this conflict, after which the English were given control of the asiento. Philip V [[the fifth]] maintained the throne of a certain country after, for the point, what 18th-century war ended by the Peace of Utrecht?---During this man’s term as governor, he sent an army to exterminate the Timpanogos [[tim-pah-NOH-gis]]. This man told the New-York Tribune that he viewed slavery as a “divine institution and not to be abolished.” This "American Moses" denied Black men the priesthood and led the provisional state of Deseret into a war named for the future state it occupied. For the point, name this first governor of Utah Territory and second president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the namesake of a university in Provo.---After his most noted action, this figure lost his right arm and eventually died of tuberculosis while imprisoned in Terezin fortress. The failure of Nedeljko Cabrinovic [nay- DEL-ee-KO kah-BRIN-oh-VICH]] to complete a task with a hand grenade prompted this member of Young Bosnia to carry out his most infamous action, after which he exclaimed “I am a Yugoslav nationalist” during trial. Being captured in Sarajevo, for the point, who was this Serb that assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand?---This state's governor Donald Carcieri [[car-CHEE-ree]] secured a loan to baseball star Curt Schilling using taxpayer money to develop the commercially unsuccessful role- playing game Kingdoms of Amalur. In Operation Plunder Dome, sitting Mayor Buddy Cianci was indicted on racketeering and embezzlement charges while serving in this state. The Jamestown Verrazzano and Clairborne Pell bridges, which cross Narragansett Bay, connect this state's city of Newport to the mainland. For the point, name this New England state centered on the city of Providence.---While besieged, this military force was airdropped supplies by a northern neighbor in Operation Poomalai from an air base of Yelahanka. It's not a Spanish organization, but these militants systematically removed Moors from cities like Jaffna and Chavakacheri in an effort to establish a homogenous Hindu homeland. Suicide bombers associated with this organization killed Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi while he visited a town near Chennai. For the point, name this militant organization which agitated for control of Sri Lanka against the Sinhalese majority government.---This leader accepted the surrender of Hiro'o Onoda, a Japanese soldier hiding out in the forests of the Lubang islands thirty years after the end of the Second World War. This politician ordered the Jabidah Massacre, the systematic killing of Muslim Moro recruits in Corregidor. This "constitutional authoritarian" and New Society leader's regime collapsed during the People Power Revolution. For the point, name this dictator of the Philippines from 1965 to 1986.---A speech by this man led to the spread of a whisper joke that partly read “Dear Tommy, fly further, we're all mine-workers here.” This man aimed to give an "unvarnished picture of the situation" in a speech asking an audience if they would work “10, 12 and if necessary 14 hours a day and to give everything for victory.” That speech by this man warned of the dangers of Bolshevism and called for “total war.” The Sportpalast speech was given by this man, who stated that “Germany … has no intention of bowing to this Jewish threat.” For the point, name this Nazi Propaganda Minister.---For the 1894 World’s Fair in this city, George Turner Marsh designed a Japanese Tea Garden. Stamps depicting Vasco Núñez de Balboa were issued for a 1915 exhibition in this city honoring the completion of the Panama Canal. That event in this city saw the building of its Palace of Fine Arts. The opening of two bridges, including one connecting this city to Oakland, was celebrated at the Golden Gate International Exhibition. For the point, name this California city on a bay.---Coventry Cathedral contains a copy of an image created at this battle by Kurt Reuber [[ROY-buh]] known as its namesake Madonna. A medal commemorating the 40th anniversary of the end of one conflict depicts the Gasitel operating amid a raging fire at this battle. At the time of its 1967 completion, the tallest statue in the world was dedicated to those who fought in this battle. That work, depicting a woman with a raised sword, is The Motherland Calls, and is located on Mamayev Kurgan, a site of bitter fighting during this battle. For the point, name this decisive Soviet victory on the Volga.---Lewis Namier wrote on the "structure of politics" at this man's accession. William Herschel's 40-foot telescope was funded by this man, who was the original namesake of Uranus. This man's blindness, porphyria and possible bipolar disorder made it difficult for Charles James Fox and William Pitt to work for him. Prime Minister Lord Shelburne served under, for the point, what English king who lost the American colonies?---The Reno Gang formed in this state, committing the first train robbery in U.S. history in its town of Seymour. Based in this state’s capital, Madam C.J. Walker became the first black female self-made millionaire with her cosmetics company. With neighboring Ohio, this state experienced a late 19th-century “Gas Boom” in cities such as Muncie. In its city of Lafayette, businessman John Purdue donated $150,000 to found a namesake university. For the point, name this home of President Benjamin Harrison, with capital at Indianapolis.---
War of Canudos (or Guerra de Canudos)---White Terror (accept Francoist Repression or La Represión franquista before "repression"; accept Terror Blanco)---An Lushan Rebellion (accept An-shi Rebellion; accept Tianbao Rebellion; accept "Disturbance(s)" in place of "Rebellion")---Münster (accept Mönster; accept Monasterium) ---Kingdom of Silla (or Shilla; prompt on "Korea" before mentioned)---John Milton Hay---Culture War Speech (accept Pat[rick Joseph] Buchanan’s speech at the 1992 Republican Nominating Convention before “Pat” is read; accept RNC in place of “Republican Nominating Convention”; prompt on "1992 RNC" speech)---Henry Louis Mencken (or H.L. Mencken) ---Möngke Khan (accept Méngge; accept Monge)---Julian the Apostate (or Flavius Claudius Julianus)---Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow [[ber-dih-moo-hah-meh-DOHV]] (Gurbanguly Malikgulyyevich Berdimuhamedov; or Gurbanguly Mälikgulyýewiç Berdimuhamedow; or Gurbanguly Malikguliyevich Berdymukhamedov; be lenient on pronunciation)---Murder of Kitty Genovese (accept descriptive answers involving the killing or death of Kitty Genovese) ---Ludwig Wittgenstein [[VIT-gen-shtine]] (or Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein; be lenient on pronunciation to include answers with a silent "G")---Muhammadu Buhari---Akira Kurosawa---Barbados ---First Scottish War of Independence (of First War of Scottish Independence)---Operas by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart---Charles VII (accept Charles the Victorious before mentioned; accept Charles the Well-Served)---Erie Railroad (accept New York and Erie Railroad; accept just Erie after "Railroad" is read) ---Huguenots [[HYOO-guh-nohts]] (prompt on French “Protestant”s)---Coureur des Bois (accept Trapper or Fur Trader before "fur trader"; accept Runner of the Woods before mentioned; prompt on "Explorer"; be lenient on pronunciation)---Gideon v. Wainwright (accept either underlined name; or Clarence E. Gideon v. Louie L. Wainwright, Corrections Director)---Quasi-War (or Quasi-guerre; prompt on "War of the Second Coalition") ---Hippocrates of Kos---Battle of Mobile Bay (prompt on "Battle of Ft. Morgan" before mentioned)---War of the Spanish Succession---Brigham Young---Gavrilo Princip ---Rhode Island (accept the former name, State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations)---Tamil Tigers (accept Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam; or LTTE)---Ferdinand Marcos (or Ferdinand Emmanuel Edralin Marcos, Sr.)---Joseph Goebbels [[GUHR-buls]] (or Paul Joseph Goebbels) ---San Francisco---Battle of Stalingrad (prompt on "Operation Uranus") ---George III (or George William Frederick)---Indiana---