Nats---False---118
The first settlement on this archipelago was Port Louis, founded by French explorer Louis-Antoine de Bougainville [[boo-gahn-VEEL]]. The USS Lexington raided this archipelago after three American ships were captured in a seal hunting dispute. An undeclared war over this archipelago and the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands was fought when Leopoldo Galtieri claimed sovereignty over Las Islas Malvinas. For the point, name this island chain fought over in a 1982 war between Argentina and the United Kingdom.---An Estonian tale fictionalizes this man’s brother, Sineus, as a blue snake. According to Nestor’s account in The Primary Chronicle, this man was the leader of the Varangians before being succeeded by Oleg. The Ladoga region was taken over by this man in the ninth century, after which he established Novgorod. The Principality of Tver and Ruthenia were ruled by houses named for this man, as was one led by Vladimir the Great. For the point, name this legendary prince whose namesake dynasty ruled Kievan Rus and various Grand Duchies.---During a war with the Arabs, these people legendarily lit their besieged village on fire and burned with it rather than surrender to forces organized by Marwan ibn Muhammad. To run their distant regions, these people used an administrative official named the tudun, borrowed from their former overlord, the Göktürks. One leader of this steppe people supposedly converted to a monotheistic faith in the 8th century to assert independence from both the Umayyad Caliphate and the Byzantine Empire. For the point, name these semi-nomadic Turkic people, whose nobles supposedly converted to Judaism.---This politician represented Daniel Sickles in the murder trial of Philip Barton Key II. This man’s death in 1869 occurred four days after the Senate confirmed him as a Justice on the Supreme Court. This man said, "Now he belongs to the ages" after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. Lorenzo Thomas was selected to replace this man in one post during an ordeal that violated the Tenure of Office Act. For the point, name this Civil War-era Secretary of War whose dismissal led to the impeachment of Andrew Johnson.---Rage Against the Machine protested this man by positioning two upside-down American flags during their performance on Saturday Night Live, the same night this man hosted the show. Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush both appointed this man as head of the Board of International Broadcasting. This man was dubbed a "single issue" candidate for his advocacy of income tax reform, which he outlined in the book Flat Tax Revolution. For the point, name this candidate for the 1996 and 2000 Republican presidential primaries who is the Editor-in-Chief of a namesake business magazine.---An officer of these military units known as the Towarzysz [[tah-WAHR-zeez]] wore a leopard pelt over his shoulder when riding into battle. Along with other military regulations, the Diet of Temesvár established these units to screen enemies of Matthias Corvinus's Black Army of Hungary. Jan Sobieski led a decisive charge of these cavalrymen into the Ottoman line during the 1683 Siege of Vienna. For the point, name this variant of Polish shock cavalry that became a common light cavalry unit in the 17th and 18th centuries.---It is believed that Pope Hilarius asked Emperor Anthemius to abolish this event in 467 A.D. One ritual of this event involved two priests smearing scarified animal blood onto their foreheads and then removing it with milk-soaked wool. During this event, Julius Caesar rejected a laurel wreath given to him by Mark Antony. This event originated when King Amulius ordered two men to be thrown into the Tiber River as punishment. For the point, what ancient Roman festival on February 15 derives its name from the she-wolf that rescued Romulus and Remus?---This thinker wrote a follow-up to his best-known book that pulls in primary sources of figures like Chief Joseph and Mother Jones. This author analyzed the voter registration efforts by Black activists in SNCC [[SNIK]]: The New Abolitionists. The chapter "Columbus, the Indians, and Human Progress" opens a book by this author which analyzes U.S. history from the perspective of exploitation instead of "fundamental nationalist glorification of country." For the point, name this author of A People's History of the United States.---Polynesian chicken bones at the El Aranal site have been used as evidence that these people were visited by Trans-Pacific travelers from Tonga. These people, who built the wooden funerary statues known as Chemamull [[che-mah-MUHL]], were led by Chief Lautaro [[low-TAH-roh]] in their victory against the Spanish at Tucapel. Conquistador Pedro de Valdivia's prolonged 16th century campaign to conquer these people during the Arauco [[ah-RAO-koh]] War ended in his death. For the point, name this indigenous people group of Chile and Argentina who remained nominally independent until the 19th century.---To pay off legal debts, this man wrote about his work in the Soviet underground in his best-selling memoir, Witness. This man penned a critique of the Yalta Conference titled "The Ghosts on the Roof." This author produced the "Pumpkin Papers" in an attempt to prove the guilt of a government official accused of spying for the Soviet Union. A witness before the House Un-American Activities Committee, for the point, what former Communist and writer for Time magazine served as the chief accuser of Alger Hiss?---In a letter to the Spanish Inquisition, this man wrote that he had found evidence of witchcraft in the Sierra Gorda. This man sparred with Governors Pedro Fages [[FAH-hess]] and Felipe de Neve [[NEH-veh]] over soldiers' behavior. After the Jesuits were expelled from Mexico, this man founded an institution named for Didacus of Alcalá [[ahl-cah-LAH]] in 1769, and he founded another institution named for St. Francis of Assisi in 1776. For the point, name this Franciscan priest who forcibly converted indigenous peoples and founded a string of missions from San Diego to San Francisco, becoming known as the "Apostle of California."---This person was prosecuted after the 1935 assassination of political rival Julio Nalundasan, though that conviction was overturned. The phrase “guns, goons, and gold” was used by the media to describe the corrupt tactics utilized by this politician’s re -election campaign in 1969. Corazon Aquino succeeded this person as president, ending a 20-year administration hallmarked by stealing upward of ten billion dollars from his nation alongside his wife, Imelda. For the point, name this authoritarian tenth president of the Philippines.---This politician narrowly defeated Majority Leader Ernest McFarland for one senate seat. Fact magazine was sued for libel by this politician after an article stated that over 1,000 psychiatrists deemed him “psychologically unfit.” Ronald Reagan gave his “A Time for Choosing” speech in support of this politician. Succeeded by John McCain after retiring, for the point, what five-time senator from Arizona lost in a landslide to Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1964 U.S. presidential election?---This industrial site on the Macondo Prospect suffered a 2010 explosion that claimed eleven lives and injured seventeen others. After the explosion, this industrial site remained on fire for more than a day before damage to the structure caused it to sink, which resulted in the spilling of 200 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. For the point, name this BP semi-submersible offshore drilling rig south of Louisiana, the destruction of which created the greatest marine oil spill in history.---Following the death of this organization's leader, Sextus Afranius Burris, it split into two factions which supported or opposed Piso's conspiracy, with the latter under Tigellinus [[tih-GEH-lih-nus]] winning out. Previous leaders of this organization included Cassius Chaerea [[kay-REE-ah]] and Sejanus, who respectively led the assassination of Caligula and rivaled Tiberius for power. This organization originally protected important judges and generals who ranked just below consuls. For the point, name this group that evolved into bodyguards and kingmakers for the Roman emperor.---This person’s body may have been discovered by Zhang Junyan and Wang Hungbao, but Wang died in an avalanche before giving a precise location. A puncture found on this person’s skull suggest they died of an ice axe infliction. This person was last seen during a 1924 expedition, as he and Andrew Irvine were 245 meters from reaching one summit. Edmund Hillary called this person the “initial pioneer of the whole idea of climbing [a certain mountain]." For the point, what mountaineer took part in the first three British expeditions to Mount Everest?---An exorcism was performed on this figure in the months prior to her death due to the belief that the devil was causing insomnia. This person led the rescue of 37 children from a bombed psychiatric hospital during the Siege of Beirut. A prominent critic of this person was Christopher Hitchens, who called her “a fanatic, a fundamentalist, and a fraud” after she was beatified by John Paul II in 2003. The winner of the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize, for the point, what Roman Catholic nun was the founder of the Order of the Missionaries of Charity?---A speech by a military figure promised his slaves freedom by saying the words "If the day is yours [at this battle], then God has given it to you." Aboard his ship La Loba, Marquess Álvaro de Bazán [[AHL-vah-roh deh bah-ZAHN]] commanded the reserve fleet in this battle, saving the right wing under Andrea Doria from breaking. During this battle, Ali Pasha was killed and had his head presented to Don John, the illegitimate son of Charles V. The use of the heavier galleasses by the Venetian-led Holy League led to, for the point, what 1571 naval victory by allied Christian forces over the Ottoman Empire?---A 1992 memo by John Major revealed his belief that this group could not be militarily defeated. This group was led by Brendan Burns during an ambush that killed 50 soldiers at Narrow Water Castle. Anthony Berry was among the victims of the Brighton hotel bombing that was executed by this group during a failed attempt to assassinate Margaret Thatcher. Responsible for the assassination of Lord Mountbatten in 1979, for the point, what organization’s goal was to drive out the British presence from Northern Ireland?---Friedrich Engels called this man’s idea “the crudest, most barbarous theory that ever existed” and believed that science would eventually solve his namesake problem. The Census Act of 1800 was passed two years after the publication of this man’s most noted book, in which he claimed agricultural production would not keep up with another metric. For the point, what 18th and 19th century economist predicted catastrophic population growth in his book, An Essay on the Principle of Population?---This city was the site of the Hamaguri Gate Rebellion, also called the Kinmon Incident. Emperor Kanmu moved his capital from Nara to the Daidairi Palace in this city, beginning the Heian Period. The Battle of Toba-Fushimi occurred in a field between this city and Osaka. Following the Battle of Sekigahara, Shogun Tokugawa moved his capital from this city to Edo. For the point, name this cultural capital of Japan, replaced as the seat of government in 1603 by Tokyo.---While interned at a prison camp, this scientist conducted experiments using an electroscope made from tin foil and wood. Along with Charles Drummond Ellis and Ernest Rutherford, this scientist co-authored Radiations from Radioactive Substances. This scientist wrote the final draft of the MAUD Report and led the British team on the Manhattan Project. The experiment in which alpha particles produced no charge when passing through beryllium foil and paraffin wax was conducted by, for the point, what physicist who discovered the neutron?---At the age of 60, this nation's vice president, Ronnie Brunswijk [[BROONS-wike]], put himself in during a CONCACAF [[KON-kah-kaff]] soccer match against the club C.D. Olimpia. That politician serves under a president of Indian descent, Chan Santokhi, who heads the Progressive Reform Party. The Treaty of Breda between the British and United Provinces traded sovereignty over New York for this modern South American nation. Brutal dictator Dési Bouterse [[BAO-ter-suh]] ruled, for the point, what former colony of the Netherlands in South America?---In this battle, the namesake of an American brand of scotch, Johnnie Walker, earned the first convoy victory while captaining the HMS Audacity. The disorganization of the Allied resistance led to the "Second Happy Time" during this naval battle in which the Regia Marina and the Kriegsmarine operated largely unimpeded. The longest continuous battle of World War Two was, for the point, which naval campaign named for a major ocean?---A heroine from this country arrived with a basket of apples and manned a cannon to defy the forces of Charles Lefebvre [[luh-FEV-ruh]]. "Bandits led by monks" were blamed for a defeat in this country at Bailén, which Chilean soldiers referenced at Maipú. A Supreme Central and Governing Junta ruled this country during its occupation. This country was briefly ruled by Napoleon's brother, Joseph Bonaparte. A king of this country abdicated at Bayonne after incidents at Aranjuez [[ah-RAHN-hwez]] and El Escorial. For the point, name this country where most of the Peninsular War was fought.---One participant in this action had a vision of soldiers falling upside down as “thick as grasshoppers." Congress passed the Maypenny Agreement and the “Sell or Starve” Act less than a year after this battle. Despite assisting a battalion led by Marcus Reno, Frederick William Benteen received criticism after this battle for failing to join a lieutenant colonel in a surprise attack. Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull defeated the 7th Calvary Regiment in, for the point, what 1876 battle that was a part of the Great Sioux War, known as “Custer’s Last Stand”?---This treaty stipulated that 25 percent of the output of the Baku oil fields must be given to one side to repay a debt of three million marks. Following this treaty, power was placed in the hands of the volksdeutsche [[VOLKS-doytch-eh]] elite in the newly created United Baltic Duchy and Kingdom of Lithuania. This 1918 treaty, which is named for a Belorussian city, was invalidated by the Treaty of Versailles. The newly-formed Soviet Union negotiated with the Central Powers, for the point, what treaty that allowed Russia to exit World War One?---After staying at the Villa San Giovanni in Alassio, this composer wrote an overture for a three-day festival in the presence of Edward VII [[the Seventh]] and Queen Alexandra titled In the South. For a memorial concert following the sinking of the Titanic, this composer conducted one of his own pieces that depicts his wife, Alice. This composer's Cello Concerto in E Minor was revived following a recording by Jacqueline du Pré. Composers still try to find the solution to a mysterious theme in, for the point, what English composer's Enigma Variations?---The press reported that a candidate in this election year cried after the "Canuck Letter" accused him of making disparaging remarks against French-Canadians. In this election year, Shirley Chisholm was the first African American to run for president. After it was revealed that he used electroshock therapy, Thomas Eagleton quit as one party's vice presidential nominee in this election year. The incumbent's policy of Vietnamization proved popular for the victor of, for the point, what election year in which George McGovern only won Massachusetts and D.C. in a landslide loss against Richard Nixon?---The event that inspired this structure’s creation occurred during a rebellion led by an Afghan noble in the Deccan Plateau. After this structure was built, its commissioner was put under house arrest by his son, Aurangzeb, until his death in 1666. A controversy was raised in 2017 when this building was excluded from tourism materials produced in Uttar Pradesh as officials deemed this building's Mughal builders were "traitors." Built as a memorial for his wife, Mumtaz, for the point, what 17th century mausoleum was commissioned by Emperor Shah Jahan in Agra, India?---This author satirized the imperialism of the Philippine-American War and the Boer War in his essay "To the Person Sitting in Darkness." This man, who authored the pamphlet "King Leopold's Soliloquy" about the Congo Free State, served as vice-president of the American Anti-Imperialist League. In a novel, this author wrote about a boy who encounters the Duke and the Dauphin [[doh-FAHN]] while traveling down the Mississippi with an enslaved man named Jim. Southern antebellum society inspired, for the point, what author to write The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn?---The most recent book published by historian Rick Atkinson is titled with this quote. The discreteness with which one event was undertaken has cast doubt on the claim that this quote was actually said, though its speaker otherwise notified groups about the presence of “Regulars.” This quote is notably omitted from a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow set during the event in which it was allegedly repeated. Attributed to a silversmith, for the point, what was this phrase warning of Redcoat movement, legendarily yelled out during the midnight ride of Paul Revere?---On October 28th, this country celebrates Ohi Day, also called the Anniversary of the No, which commemorates this country’s rejection of an ultimatum and subsequent entry into World War Two. This country was invaded in Operation Marita after its forces liberated the city of Korçë [[KART-shuh]] and the region of Epirus [[ih-"PIE"-russ]]. Benito Mussolini launched a failed invasion of this country, which was led by Ioannis Metaxas [[yoh-AH-niss meh-TUK-sass]]. For the point, in which European nation did German troops raise a Nazi flag on the Acropolis?---The subject of a 2021 film imagines themselves dressed as this person as they walk down a hallway repeatedly yelling, “Tell them I’m not well!” In that film, Spencer, Princess Diana envisions the ghost of this person in place of Queen Elizabeth II during a Christmas dinner at Sandringham. This person’s demise was depicted in a 2008 film after Jane Parker claims that this woman was having an incestuous affair with her brother, George. For the point, who was the second wife of King Henry VIII [[the Eighth]], ultimately beheaded on charges of adultery and treason?---This city hosted the Red Bull Stratos in which Austrian skydiver Felix Baumgartner flew 24 miles into the stratosphere. Barack Obama jokingly said, “I come in peace” upon arriving in this city. A report by the United States Air Force explained that debris found in this city was a Project Mogul balloon that crashed in the desert. With a little green man and a flying saucer depicted on its seal, for the point, what city in New Mexico supposedly experienced UFO sightings in 1947?---The medicinal needs of these people were collected in a compendium of medieval texts called the Trotula [[troh-TOO-lah]], named for a physician from Salerno. A 15th- century text partially titled for these people by Christine de Pizan sings the praises of exemplary members such as Zenobia and Semiramis [[seh-mee-RAH-miss]]. Albertus Magnus wrote a particularly inept and misleading treatise titled On the Secrets of [these people], perhaps inspired by his vow to celibacy. For the point, name this group of people who held medieval occupations like alewives and nuns.---
Falkland Islands (accept Falklands; accept Falklands War; accept Islas Malvinas before mentioned)---Rurik (or Rorik; accept Rjurikŭ; or Riurik; accept Rurikids; accept Rurikid Dynasty)---Khazars (accept Gazari); or Kuzarim; or Házaroi)---Edwin Stanton (or Edwin McMasters Stanton) ---Steve Forbes (or Malcom Stevenson Forbes Jr.; accept Forbes magazine)---Hussars (accept Winged Hussars; prompt on "cavalry" or "horsemen")---Lupercalia (or Dies Februatus)---Howard Zinn ---Mapuche [[mah-POO-cheh]] (accept Araucanians before "Arauco" is mentioned)---Whittaker Chambers (accept Jay Vivian Chambers)---Saint Junípero Serra y Ferrer (accept Father Junípero Serra)---Ferdinand Marcos (or Ferdinand Emmanuel Edralin Marcos Sr.) ---Barry Goldwater (or Barry Morris Goldwater)---Deepwater Horizon---Praetorian Guard (or Cohortes Praetoriae)---George Mallory (or George Herbert Leigh Mallory) ---Mother Teresa (or Anjezë Gonxhe Bonaxhiu; or Mother Mary Teresa Bojaxhiu; or Saint Teresa of Calcutta)---Battle of Lepanto---IRA (or Irish Republican Army; or Provisional Irish Republican Army; accept Provos)---Thomas Malthus (Thomas Robert Malthus; accept Malthusian catastrophe; or Malthusian Trap; or Malthusian Check; or Malthusian Crisis; or Malthusian Spectre; or Malthusian Crunch) ---Kyoto (accept Heian-kyo)---James Chadwick---Republic of Suriname (or Republiek Suriname)---Battle of the Atlantic---Kingdom of Spain (or Reino de España) ---Battle of the Little Bighorn (or Battle of the Greasy Grass; accept Custer’s Last Stand until mentioned)---Treaty of Brest-Litovsk---Edward William Elgar---U.S. presidential election of 1972 (prompt on "'72") ---Taj Mahal---Mark Twain (accept Samuel Langhorn Clemens)---"The British are Coming!"---Greece (or Hellenic Republic; or Elliniki Dimokratia; or Ellas; or Ellada; accept Hellenic State; accept Kingdom of Greece) ---Anne Boleyn (prompt on "Anne"; prompt on "The Other Boleyn Girl")---Roswell, New Mexico Extra Questions---Women (accept reasonable equivalents)---