Nats---True---119
In this city, the formerly-enslaved John Price was captured by a U.S. Marshal and transported to nearby Wellington before being rescued by locals. Howard Hyde Russell founded the Anti-Saloon League in this city, (+) which was the home city of Charles Martin Hall, namesake of a "process" to produce aluminum. Hall's father attended this city's most famous college's (*) Seminary School, which was founded by abolitionists. For the points, name this Ohio city southwest of Cleveland, home to a namesake private liberal arts college.---A lance-bearer who once held this king’s post claimed that he died of a self- inflicted wound in what is now Hama, Syria. Though not Artaxerxes [[ar-tah-ZERK- sees]], this man defeated Psamtik [[SAHM-tik]] III at a battle near the Egyptian city of Pelusium. (+) This man’s younger brother was sometimes known as Smerdis, and this king rose to his highest post after his predecessor was supposedly killed fighting the Massagetae [[mass-ah-GET-"eye"]] tribe. The son of the founder of the (*) Achaemenid Empire, for the points, who was this successor of Cyrus the Great?---This person wrote under the pseudonym “Camillus” when writing to newspapers defending the Jay Treaty. Alexander Hamilton encouraged this person to abandon his law practice to move to New York and was eventually elected to the New York State Assembly. This person ran as a (+) Federalist in the 1816 presidential election with running mate John E. Howard (*) but lost in a landslide to James Monroe. For the points, who was this signer of the U.S. Constitution from New York, the last Federalist to run for president?---Frank Jurko posits that the Hekla 3 eruption in Iceland may have contributed to this event after an eighteen year dip in world temperatures caused widespread famine. A book comparing this event to a “large-scale wildfire” was titled for the year 1177 BCE, and it included the migration of the Dorians. Invasions by the (+) Sea Peoples and widespread famine possibly caused this event, which led to the palace economy’s decline. Ushering in the (*) Greek Dark Ages, for the points, what was this relatively rapid event during which the Mycenaeans and Hittites fell and the Assyrian and Egyptian empires shrank?---At this battle, a cavalry detachment led by John Hammond was attacked near Parker's Store by A.P. Hill's Third Corps. This battle began when Gouverneur Warren's Fifth Corps attacked Richard Ewell's Second Corps along the Orange Turnpike. On the second day of this battle, James (+) Longstreet was wounded in the neck by friendly fire. Several days after this inconclusive battle, one commander fought Robert E. Lee's men at the Battle of (*) Spotsylvania Court House. For the points, name this first major battle of Ulysses S. Grant's Overland Campaign.---Cyrus Dallin created a statue of this man that stands on Cole’s Hill. This man, one of whose names means “Yellow Feather,” was described as wearing “a great chain of white bone beads about his neck” by Edward Winslow. A depiction of peace talks shows this man smoking a pipe with (+) John Carver. This man’s son, Wamsutta, was himself succeeded by Metacomet, the namesake of King Philip’s War. The title sachem was held by this leader, who sent (*) Squanto to greet the Plymouth colonists. For the points, name this Wampanoag chief who allied with the Pilgrims.---In the U.S. Senate, this man was succeeded by his state’s former governor, James Henry Hammond. Along with Stephen Douglas, this man co-authored an act that overturned the Missouri Compromise and allowed western states to maintain sovereignty on the issue of slavery. This co-author of the (+) Kansas-Nebraska Act was compared to Don Quixote in a speech claiming that this man chose slavery as his "harlot." That speech prompted this man’s cousin, (*) Preston Brooks, to violently beat one senator. For the points, name this South Carolina senator and target of Charles Sumner’s “Crime Against Kansas” Speech.---In the 1940s, monuments to this incident were removed from B.B.D. Bagh [[BAHK]] following a pressure campaign involving Subhas Chandra Bose. The chief chronicler of this event blamed the Jemmaatdaar class for its outcome. This incident followed John Zephaniah Holwell's unsuccessful defense of (+) Fort William from Siraj ud-Daulah. The name for this event inspired astronomer Robert Dicke to coin a (*) term for collapsed stars. Anywhere from 43 to 123 prisoners died of suffocation and heat-induced causes in, for the points, what 1756 event in which British troops were forced into a small room overnight in India?---During the English Civil War, Roundhead soldiers desecrated this man's bones along with William Rufus during their sack of Winchester Cathedral. This man, who married the widow of Aethelred the Unready, Emma of Normandy, seized the Kingdom of (+) Norway after bribing officials under Olaf II. An invasion by this man led to a treaty with Edmund Ironsides, which gave this man control of (*) England save the petty kingdom of Wessex. For the points, name this Scandinavian king and son of Sweyn [[SVAYN]] Forkbeard who formed what is now known as the North Sea Empire.---Gloria Navarro declared a mistrial in the case of a member of this family, who led a campaign after the Hammond arson case. Lloyd D. George ordered a member of this family to stop trespassing near Gold Butte. The tasing of a member of this family led to the Battle of (+) Bunkerville. This family led an armed standoff against the Bureau of Land Management in Nevada in (*) 2014 as well as the 2016 Malheur National Wildlife Refuge occupation in Oregon. For the points, name this Nevada and Idaho-based ranching family of far-right activists whose members include Ammon and Cliven.---The Northern Star newspaper was published by the instigators of this conflict. The Republic of Connaught [[KON-nacht]] was proclaimed during this conflict following the "Races of Castlebar." The losing side of this conflict were defeated at the Battle of Vinegar (+) Hill, and France tacitly provided support for this revolt thanks to the efforts of Wolfe (*) Tone, who died before his planned execution after this event. Leading to the 1800 Acts of Union, for the points, what was this late-eighteenth century conflict against British rule of the Emerald Isle?---One siege during this conflict targeted a location whose citadel was found at the juncture of the Sambre and Meuse Rivers. Tortuga and Saint-Domingue were ceded by Spain in the aftermath of this conflict, which involved the siege of Namur. The Raid on (+) Cartagena [[kar-tah-HEH-nah]] occurred during this war, which was ended by the Treaty of Ryswick. The stadtholder Leopold represented the Archduchy of (*) Austria in one side in this conflict, which was composed of enemies of France. For the points, name this 1688 to 1697 conflict sometimes known as the Nine Years’ War.---This event resulted in the renaming of a place once referred to as the Pyinmana District. A monument honoring King Anawrahta was on display during an Armed Forces Day celebration that was set to coincide with this event. The ease of travel to the Shan and Kayin (+) states and the devastation wrought by Cyclone Nargis contributed to this 2006 event, after which foreign countries were urged to relocate their embassies by (*) Aung San Suu Kyi [[CHEE]]. For the points, name this event in which Yangon was replaced in its executive capacity by Naypyidaw [[NAYP-yih-daw]].---At this battle, a flanking attack forced one side to retreat to Bisan. Just prior to this battle, the death of one commander’s grandson prompted an attack on Sidon [[SYE- dun]]. 43 years after this battle, a similar result occurred at Marj al-Saffar in Syria. The forces of Qutuz [[KUH-tooz]] were inspired by the (+) rallying cry “Oh, my Islam” at this battle, during which a sultan of the Bahri dynasty led a feigned retreat. Baibars became sultan after this 1260 battle, which stopped Hulagu (*) Khan's attempt to expand into the Levant. For the points, name this battle at which the Mamluks defeated the Mongols.---This item was discovered in December 2020 by a medical student named Jack Stuef [[STOOF]]. Nine clues leading to this item were written as a poem in the book The Thrill of the Chase. (+) The second stanza of that poem regarding this item reads, “Begin it where waters halt and take it in the canyon down.” (*) For the points, what cache of gold and jewels was hidden by a former U.S. Air Force pilot and art dealer in the state of Wyoming?---This politician unseated Hattie Carraway, the first woman elected to serve a full term as a U.S. senator. This man criticized American involvement in the Vietnam War while serving as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from 1959 to 1974. A series of hearings chaired by this man brought forth (+) John Kerry's testimony on war crimes. This politician introduced legislation that created a program in which the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs gave (*) grants to American students. For the points, name this Arkansas senator who names a program for international education exchange.---This leader replaced his country’s fleet of Mercedes with much cheaper Renault [[reh-NOH]] 5’s. This leader rejected IMF aid, stating, "He who feeds you, controls you." This leader fought a five day war with Mali over the Agacher [[ah-gah-SHEH]] Strip and stripped the office of Mogho Naba (+) of its power, alienating the Mossi ethnic group. Following the deterioration of relations with France, this Marxist was assassinated in a 1987 coup led by Blaise Compaoré [[kohm-POW-reh]] in the city of (*) Ouagadougou [[oo-ah-gah-DOO-goo]]. For the points, name this leader, known as the “African Che Guevara," who renamed his country Burkina Faso.---During this event, the Sekoro tribe came into conflict with the Louis Tregardt party after they provided offers of marula beer by day but stole their cattle by night. A holiday celebrating this event named the Day of the Vow was replaced in 1994 with the Day of (+) Reconciliation. During this larger event, over 10,000 impis were repelled by the use of the laager wagon fort by its participants in the Battle of Bloody River. The (*) Boer exodus from the Cape Colony occurred during, for the points, which journey that led to the founding of independent South African republics?---A district named for these objects surrounds the Gandan monastery, which was depopulated by Stalin-era purges. Herodotus described an early example of these objects used by the Scythian people. These homes were often distributed in a huree (+) circle according to the Secret History of the Mongols and were built to be easily (*) collapsible to facilitate transport by yaks. For the points, name these round tents used by steppe nomads of Central Asia for over three thousand years.---In cases in which charges relating to these bills were brought against officers, Golden v. Hales decided that that “the dispensing power” would be favored. A cartoon depicting a man’s attempts to repeal these bills, which are often grouped with a Corporation Act, (+) shows him standing on a barrel labelled “FANATICISM.” The line “I do believe that there is not any transubstantiation” was a required recitation by the terms of one of these bills passed in (*) 1673. For the points, name this group of British acts aimed at hindering the political participation of Catholics.---The head of one organization wrote a letter to Franz-Josef Rudigier formally condemning this program as a "leges abominabiles [[LEZH ah-bohm-ee-nah-BEEL]]." A provision which laid the groundwork for the Austrittgesetz [[ow-SHTRIT-geh-sets]], or "The Law of Separation," was a part of Minister of Education (+) Adalbart Falk's early implementation of this program. This social conflict came to an end with the passage of the First Mitigation Law negotiated following the death of Pius IX [[the Ninth]], allowing (*) clerics to be exempt from some Prussian laws. For the points, name this "War" undertaken by Otto Von Bismarck to lessen the influence of the Catholic Church in his state.---A desk built for the owners of this company was used by George H.W. Bush in the Oval Office. One mascot for this company had a husband named "Peake'' and appeared in advertisements with the slogan "Sleep Like a Kitten and Arrive as Fresh as a Daisy." (+) One train this company ran to The Greenbrier was named the Resort Special. This company shares its name with a 19th century (*) canal that ended in Cumberland, Maryland. For the points, name this railroad that merged with the Baltimore & Ohio and the Western Maryland Railroad to form the Chessie System in 1973.---This organization named a magazine after their native language’s word for Piedmont. The strength displayed by one leader of this organization led him to be nicknamed for the Egyptian bull Apis. This organization led the May Coup, which resulted in the killing of King Alexander. (+) Dragutin Dimitrijević [["Dimitri"-YEH- vich]] founded this organization, which ordered an attack that killed Sophie of Hohenberg. Though not a member, (*) Gavrilo Princip was trained and assisted by, for the points, what Serbian military secret society which was likely behind the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand?---This ruler established a museum with a name meaning “art chamber” to maintain the memory of “natural and human curiosities.” The kunstkamera was built by this man along a river that also features a statue of this ruler that was built on top of the Thunder Stone. (+) That work depicting this man by Etienne Maurice Falconet was the subject of a poem by Pushkin titled “The Bronze Horseman.” Paintings set during the Great (*) Northern War often depict this exceptionally tall tsar. For the points, name this emperor who ruled Russia during the early 1700s.---One of the people who testified at this event compared the movement to “Nazi book burnings.” Paula Hawkins was a supporting witness at this event and presented music videos from Twisted Sister and Van Halen as evidence. During this event, John Denver (+) claimed his song “Rocky Mountain High” did not allude to drug use. Future Second Lady Tipper (*) Gore headed the committee that undertook this event. Dee Snider and Frank Zappa testified in, for the points, what 1985 event that aimed to warn consumers on songs containing explicit content?---A 2011 release from Haemimont [[HAY-mih-mont]] Games is about the “Last” of this group. In Aion: The Tower of Eternity, members of the Warrior class can choose between being Gladiators or members of this group. In one franchise, this group dates back to ancient Egypt and was reorganized under leaders like (+) Hugues de Payen [["hugh" duh pay-AHN]]. The Pieces of Eden are among the relics sought out by this group in the (*) Assassins Creed franchise. For the points, the game Lionheart: Legacy of the Crusader allows players to become members of what Christian military order that were banished by Pope Clement V?---This psychologist founded the Heroic Imagination Project and also developed the Time Perspective Theory. In his book, The Lucifer Effect, this psychologist wrote, “Good people can be induced, seduced, and initiated into behaving in (+) evil ways.” This psychologist’s best-known experiment involved assigning students into roles within a mock (*) prison. For the points, what psychologist is notable for conducting the Stanford Prison Experiment?---In this work, a surveyor named Lolo Soentoro marries the mother of the protagonist, who subtitled this work, “A Story of Race and Inheritance.” Experiences at Occidental College are described in this book, which was re-released in 2004 after its author gave the DNC (+) keynote address that year. Ending with its author’s entry into Harvard Law School, this book was published eleven years prior to (*) The Audacity of Hope. Set in cities like Chicago and Honolulu, for the points, what is this memoir written by Barack Obama?---This king ordered “the Second Benedict” to found the Monastery of the Redeemer on the Inde [[AAHND]]. After facing a rebellion, this man blinded his nephew, Bernard of Italy, who died two days later. A son whom this man had with his second wife, Judith of Bavaria, was initially excluded from the Ordinatio Imperii, (+) which outlined his succession. One son of this man, who shared his first name, was given the epithet “the German” and fought with this man’s other sons, Lothair and Charles the Bald. The Treaty of (*) Verdun divided the territory of, for the points, what son and successor of Charlemagne?---Various fireworks displays and celebrations during this empire are chronicled in a set of Imperial Festival Works. That work appears in a novel set in this empire in which different perspectives are provided on the morality of coffee. That work features characters like Stork and Butterfly and features the murder of a miniaturist named (+) Elegant Effendi. Satan and the title color are among the narrators of a work set during this empire, My Name is Red, partly occurring during the reign of (*) Murat III. For the points, name this empire that is often the subject of Orhan Pamuk, the only Nobel Prize winner in Literature from Turkey.---A 2003 article entitled "Where Have All the Children Gone?" examined the relationship between this movement and the sudden drop in birth rates to among the lowest in the industrial world. A leader of this movement wrote The Impertinences of Brother Anonymous. (+) The beginning of this movement was signaled by the Union Nationale's loss in 1960 elections to the Liberal Party led by Jean Lesage. Secularization of education, strengthening of unions, and (*) Francophone nationalism were some of the results of, for the points, what 1960s movement to reform Catholic influence and pre-modern institutions in Quebec?---Sophus Bugge [[boo-GEH]] proposed that this figure was an alternative to Lucifer. A stone placed in front of the Kirkby Stephen Parish Church is believed to be an early depiction of this figure while he were bound. A description of this deity’s lips, as told in the second part of the (+) Prose Edda, proved that he was the figure on the Snaptun Stone found in Denmark. Depicted on the (*) Gosforth Cross being saved by his wife, Sigyn, for the points, what “trickster” is the Norse god of mischief?---A bishop from this nation, Martinho da Costa Lopes, reported that hundreds of men and women were lined up along the cliffs and executed by TNI forces in a 1975 genocide. This nation's future president, José Ramos-Horta, earned the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 (+) for fostering peaceful independence from the government of B.J. Habibie. The Fretilin movement attempted to seize control of this modern nation after declaring independence from (*) Portugal, prompting an invasion ordered by Suharto. For 23 years, Indonesia occupied, for the points, what Southeast Asian island nation?---Through The Immune Response Corporation, this man and Kevin Kimberlin made an early attempt to to develop a vaccine for AIDS. An anthropological work known as Laboratory Life records the daily activity at (+) an institute influenced by the work of and name for this virologist. When asked if he would patent a certain vaccine he developed, this virologist said "There is no patent. Could you patent the (*) sun?" The polio vaccine of 1950s was developed by, for the points, which Jewish-American virologist?---This composer wrote a parody of fascist sympathies in Europe through a Broadway musical where the "Blue Shirts" allow President Wintergreen to arrest the Supreme Court in Let 'Em Eat Cake. The Gullah community of the coastal Carolinas inspired (+) the setting of one of this man's works which includes songs like the Torah inspired "It Ain't Necessarily So" and the south folk song (*) "Summertime." The opera Porgy and Bess is by, for the points, which early 20th century Jewish-American composer of the work Rhapsody in Blue?---In 1964, this company commissioned IBM to create a computer system that allowed representatives to provide booking information. Frank Abagnale [[AB-ag- nayl]] duped authorities by pretending to be a pilot with over two million air miles (+) at this company. Employees at this company spent approximately $35,000 on newspaper advertisements to garner public sympathy for their financial (*) struggles following the 1973 oil crisis. Once priding itself as the “World’s Most Experienced Airline,” for the points, what airline carrier ceased to exist in 1991?---This person was vilified in a caricature by Thomas Nast showing a depiction of Satan holding a sign that reads, “Be saved by free love.” Theodore Tilton sued Henry Ward Beecher after a newspaper, co-published by this person, exposed the latter’s affair with Tilton’s wife. (+) Although he never acknowledged the decision, Frederick Douglass was selected by this person to be their running (*) mate on the Equal Rights Party ticket during the 1872 election. For the points, who was the first woman to run for the United States presidency?---Following the Foibe massacres, a mass exodus of this ethnic group occurred after the regions of Kvarner, Istria, and Dalmatia were annexed in 1947 following the Paris Peace Treaties. The term "Mutiliated Victory" was used by Gabriele (+) D'Annunzio to describe the lack of territorial concessions given to this people following an Allied victory in World War One. (*) Benito Mussolini led, for the points, which ethnic group of Southern Europe during the Second World War?---
Oberlin (accept Oberlin-Wellington Rescue; accept Oberlin College)---Cambyses II (accept Kabujiya II; prompt on “Cambyses”; prompt on “Kabujiya”)---Rufus King---Late Bronze Age Collapse (accept descriptive answers involving the end of the Bronze Age) ---Battle of the Wilderness---Massasoit Sachem (accept Ousamequin; accept Yellow Feather before mentioned; prompt on "Great Sachem")---Andrew Butler (or Andrew Pickens Butler)---Black Hole of Calcutta (prompt on partial answers) ---Cnut the Great (or Canute the Great)---Bundy (accept Cliven Bundy or Ammon Bundy)---Irish Rebellion of 1798 (or the Rising of 1798; accept Éirí Amach 1798; accept The Hurries; accept synonyms such as Revolution or Uprising in place of Rebellion)---War of the League of Augsburg (or War of the Grand Alliance; accept War of the Palatine Succession; accept Nine Years’ War before mentioned; prompt on "King William's War") ---Moving the capital of Myanmar (from Yangon to Naypyidaw) (accept clear- knowledge equivalents; accept Republic of the Union of Myanmar, or Burma, or Pyidaunzu Thanmăda Myăma, Nainngandaw or Myanma in place of Myanmar; prompt on partial answers)---Battle of Ain Jalut (or Ma'rakat ‘Ayn Jālūt; accept Battle of Goliath’s Spring; accept Battle of the Spring of Goliath)---Forrest Fenn treasure (accept any equivalents to “treasure of Forrest Fenn”)---J(ames) William Fulbright (accept Fulbright Program; accept Fulbright-Hays Program) ---Thomas Sankara (or Thomas Isidore Noël Sankara)---The Great Trek (accept Die Groot Trek; prompt on "Zulu-Boer War")---Yurts (or Ger; prompt on "Tents")---Test Acts (accept Test Act of 1673; accept Corporation Act of 1661 before “Corporation” is mentioned) ---Kulturkampf (prompt on "Culture War" or "Culture Struggle")---Chesapeake & Ohio Railway (or C&O Railway)---Black Hand (or Crna Ruka; accept Unification or Death; or Ujedinjenje ili smrt)---Peter the Great (or Peter I of Russia; or Pyotr Alekseyevich; prompt on partial answers; accept Pyotr in place of Peter) ---PMRC Hearing (or Parents Music Resource Center Hearing; accept Parental Advisory Hearing; or Washington Wives Hearing)---Knights Templar (accept Templars; or Templar Order; accept Order of Solomon's Temple; accept Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon)---Philip Zimbardo (or Philip George Zimbardo)---Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance ---Louis the Pious (or Louis le Pieux; or Louis I of France; or Louis the Fair; or Louis the Debonaire)---Ottoman Empire (accept Devlet-i Aliye-i Osmaniye; accept The Sublime Ottoman State; accept Osmanli İmparatorluğu; accept Osmanli Devleti; accept Empire Ottoman)---Quiet Revolution (or Révolution tranquille)---Loki ---Timor-Leste (or East Timor)---Jonas Salk (accept Salk Institute)---George Gershwin ---Pan Am (or Pan American World Airways; or Pan American Airways)---Victoria Woodhull (or Victoria Claflin Woodhull; or Victoria Woodhull Martin; or Victoria California Claflin)---Italians (accept Italianos)---