Nats---True---124
After this character’s wife laments “I squeezed your paycheck ‘til it screamed...there was no rent,” this man reassures her by saying “You made that place a home.” Earlier, this man’s wife tries to stop the beating of a (+) peasant, until this man reminds her that “It’s just a play! She’ll get up afterward” during a performance of The Red (*) Detachment of Women. On this character’s entrance, he sings that “news has a kind of mystery” in a hand-shaking line on a tarmac, having stepped oﬀ the Spirit of ‘76. For the points, name this leader who travels with his wife, Patricia, and advisor, Henry Kissinger, to China in a John Adams opera.---This organization was weakened after it supported the failed rebellion of Inarus in Egypt. Deserters from this organization went unpunished after it lost the Battle of Coronea, and the city of Thasos had its (+) walls torn down as punishment for rebelling against this organization. Though this organization’s nominal purpose was to oppose (*) Persian aggression, its power was centralized after its treasury was moved from its namesake island to the mainland - speciﬁcally, into the Parthenon. For the points, name this alliance of ancient Greek city-states led by Athens.---A photograph set three days before this event shows three soldiers forcing a man to crawl up a street. The Hunter Commission investigated this event, which occurred after a group had organized to (+) protest the extension of emergency measures in the Rowlatt Act in the Jallianwala Bagh gardens. Men under (*) Reginald Dyer perpetrated this event, which took place on the morning of Vaisakhi. Hundreds of pilgrims were killed in, for the points, what April 13, 1919 massacre conducted by the British in the Punjab in a holy Sikh city?---People who used this system relied on the Donation Land Act to ofﬁcially guarantee their land rights, which had been quasi-legally promised by a set of Organic Laws. This system titles a book of “Sketches of (+) Prairie and Rocky-Mountain Life” by Francis Parkman. The objective of the York Factory Express was similar to that of this system, for which Thomas Farnham and John (*) Gantt served as guides. Landmarks along its way included Fort Kearney. For the points, name this trail used by settlers traveling west to the Willamette Valley. Oregon Trail---This man was forced to retreat from Zurich to Glarus in the winter, earning comparisons to Hannibal crossing the Alps and a promotion to generalissimo. This man’s troops sacked Praga during the Ko´sciuszko Uprising, and he had earlier defeated the (+) Bar Confederation in Poland. Paul I ﬁred this man, then re-hired him at the insistence of European leaders to reverse Napoleon’s conquest of (*) Italy. This author of The Science of Victory led a successful Siege of Izmail against the Ottomans, helping to put down Pugachev’s Rebellion. For the points, name this undefeated Russian general under Catherine the Great.---After dreaming of a golden man in the sky, Emperor Ming summoned two of these people to translate a book with twenty-four chapters. One of these people, Ennin, was deported to Japan during a (+) campaign against these people by Emperor Wuzong. The travels of one of these people, (*) Xuanzang, inspired Journey to the West. A group of these people living on Mount Song developed Shaolin kung fu. For the points, name these people who engage in ascetic meditation and follow the path of dharma, dedicating their life to Buddhism.---This ruler’s life was recorded in a series of depictions at the Red Chapel. Historians have long debated the sudden disappearance of this ruler’s advisor Senenmut from ofﬁcial records. This ruler launched the (+) Kosseir expedition, which brought back myrrh trees from the land of Punt. A mortuary complex built into a rock wall at Deir el-Bahari was among one of many monuments (*) defaced by this ruler’s successor, Thutmose III. A false beard often adorns depictions of, for the points, what daughter of Thutmose I, an 18th Dynasty pharaoh?---An octagonal monument dedicated to this battle is located in Hohenstein, and a silver medallion commemorating this battle shows a bearded man holding a sword over a ﬂailing bear. Max Hoﬀman claimed to invent the (+) name of this battle, which was followed by ﬁghting at the Masurian Lakes a week later. Rather than report defeat at this battle to (*) Nicholas II, the losing commander, Alexander Samsonov, decided to kill himself. Hindenburg and Ludendorﬀ were victorious at, for the points, what early World War I battle that purposely shares its name with a Teutonic clash?---W. Joseph Campbell argues that a famous correspondence between this man and his employee never existed, noting that James Creelman, the only original source that mentions it, was away in Europe at the time. In that correspondence, this man responded (+) “Please remain” to the request “Everything is quiet. There is no trouble here. [...] I wish to return.” Campbell also notes that those communications would have been nearly impossible to get through censors in (*) Havana to this man’s war correspondent, Frederick Remington. For the points, name this editor of the New York Journal who legendarily claimed “You furnish the pictures, and I’ll furnish the war” prior to the Spanish-American War.---An association to promote this landmark was founded by John Woodruﬀ and Cyrus Avery. This landmark, which hosted the “Bunion Derby,” once included the Chain of Rocks Bridge. This landmark was ofﬁcially (+) decommissioned in 1985. A depiction of migrants ﬂeeing the Dust Bowl on this road in (*) Steinbeck’s Grapes of Wrath was the source of this route’s nickname “The Mother Road.” A Bobby Troup song told the listener to “get your kicks on,” For the points, what numbered highway that ran from Chicago to Santa Monica, California, often called the “Main Street of America?”---This organization was targeted by ZOMO operatives during a massacre in the Wujek [voo-yeck] Coal Mine. This organization’s precursors included the Worker’s Defense Committee, which took part in 1976 riots in the city of Radom, and an Interfactory (+) Strike Committee. A Charter of Workers’ Rights was published by this organization, which engaged in the (*) Round Table talks with the Jaruzelski [yuh-roo-ZEL-ski] government. Lech Walesa [vah-wen-sah] led, for the points, what labor union that was instrumental in ending Communist rule of Poland?---Bayard Smith. The central subject of this scandal later married Antonio Buchignani, a music teacher who absconded with her savings and her (+) granddaughter. During this scandal, Emily Donelson was ﬁred from her position as hostess in the (*) White House. This scandal was touched oﬀ when a Secretary of War was found to have married a widow. For the points, name this scandal in which John Eaton was ostracized by Washington society during the Jackson administration. Petticoat Aﬀair (accept the Eaton Aﬀair or Eaton Malaria before Eaton is read, and---A work by this author opens with a politician named Yali asking why white men brought so much cargo to New Guinea. This author lists overhunting and overﬁshing as two of 12 environmental factors that threaten contemporary society in his 2005 work (+) Collapse. A work by this author, sometimes subtitled “A Short History of Everybody for the Last 13,000 Years,” argues against (*) Eurasian intellectual superiority and explains European domination of the world instead as a consequence of the three title factors. For the points, name this American popular scientist, the author of Guns, Germs and Steel.---This scientist deduced from his study of albino people that Adam and Eve were white but somehow able to give birth to all races. Ambrose Godfrey, the inventor of the ﬁre extinguisher, worked as an (+) assistant to this scientist. The point at which the eﬀects of excluded volume and attractive forces cancel out in the van der Waals equation is known as this (*) chemist’s namesake temperature. For the points, name this 17th century Irish chemist, the author of The Sceptical Chymist, whose namesake law states that pressure is inversely proportional to volume.---Description acceptable. This event began when one side displayed the Iron Blood ﬂag before winning the Battle of Yangxia. A revolt over the Railway Protection Movement led to the Wuchang Uprising, which was the start of this event. This (+) revolution led to the creation of the Beiyang Government and the Five-Colored Flag. After this event, Yuan (*) Shikai declared himself emperor in conﬂict with Sun Yat-Sen’s KMT. For the points, name this event that led to the founding of the Republic of China and the abdication of Puyi, the last Emperor of China.---One man with this surname succeeded Jacob Westervelt in his highest post, from which he saved Central Park from proposed pre-construction downsizing. That mayor with this surname advocated the secession of New York City due to its heavy reliance on the cotton trade; that Tammany Hall member was named (+) Fernando. A cavalry unit founded by another member of with this surname fought at the Battle of Las Guasimas and featured (*) Teddy Roosevelt. For the points, give this last name of the founder of the Rough Riders, Leonard.---This country worked to decentralize its government with the 1982 Defferre Laws. State control of capitalism in this country, a policy known as dirigism, led to the “Thirty Glorious Years” after World War II. This country has been led by three (+) “cohabitation” governments in which the President and Prime Minister come from diﬀerent political ´ parties, such as between (*) Edouard Balladur and this country’s ﬁrst Socialist President, Francois Mitterand. For the points, name this European country, earlier led by Mitterand with Jacques Chirac. France (accept the Fifth Republic)---This author described meeting Alessandro Cagliostro, who was kicked out of France for his alleged involvement in the Affair of the Diamond Necklace, in a travelogue that begins with the phrase “Et (+) in Arcadia ego.” This man wrote two novels about a character who abandons a life of acting to join the Tower Society, the second of which concerns that character’s (*) “Journeyman Years.” The title character of a play by this author seduces Gretchen with the power he gained from making a pact with Mephistopheles. For the points, name this German author of Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and Faust.---A house band at this event at one point played “Marching Through Georgia” to honor the South, not realizing it was William Sherman’s marching song. This event eventually selected a West Virginia politician and lawyer who, years later, defended the (+) steel industry in the 1952 Youngstown Sheet and Tube case. This event featured much controversy about selecting William (*) McAdoo or Al Smith, mostly due to McAdoo’s support from the Ku Klux Klan. For the points, name this gathering in Madison Square Garden that, after a record 103 ballots, selected John W. Davis for a race he would lose to the incumbent Calvin Coolidge.---Robert Worth’s book A Rage for Order is partly subtitled for this location. The Mogamma is a building next to this location, where CBS reporter (+) Lara Logan was sexually assaulted while reporting in 2011. That reporting came during celebrations following eighteen days of protesting in this location that ultimately resulted in the February 11th (*) ousting of Hosni Mubarak. For the points, name this public space that was the central location of protest during the 2011 Egyptian Revolution in Cairo.---This leader strongly supported the release of the documentary They Call Us Misﬁts . In 1972, this leader controversially compared the Hanoi bombings to the Treblinka extermination camp, one of his numerous attacks on American involvement in Vietnam. This member of the (+) SSDP was the ﬁrst Western leader to visit Cuba following its revolution. Ingvar Carlsson took over this man’s position after his (*) assassination in 1986 while walking home from the cinema, a murder that is still unsolved. For the points, name this former Prime Minister of Sweden. Palme---A panic during this man’s presidency was partially caused by the collapse of the Ohio Life and Trust Company. John Covode led a committee investigating this man for corruption. An incident under this man’s predecessor involving the Black Warrior prompted this man to (+) co-write a document with Pierre Soul´e and John Mason calling for war against Spain if the U.S. was not given Cuba. This man, who helped write the (*) Ostend Manifesto, was president during the Dred Scott case and was the only unmarried president in history. For the points, name this 15th president who preceded Abraham Lincoln.---These entities were allowed to be annexed by the Doctrine of Lapse. The rulers of these entities were entitled to receive a government allowance known as the (+) privy purse, and the most powerful examples of these entities were known as “salute states” because their rulers were entitled to a gun salute. A few of these states refused to give up this status in (*) 1947 and had to be invaded, including Hyderabad and Kalat. For the points, name these monarchical states where the British gave local Indian rulers control.---In one of his ﬁnal paintings, El Greco showed people of this profession in bright robes and barefooted with ﬂying angels. That painting was El Greco’s version of The Adoration of these people, who are ﬁrst to visit the (+) Holy Family. A UNESCO World Heritage Site in Ravenna, the Mausoleum of Galla Placida, includes a (*) lunette mosaic of one of these people in a gold robe as an allegory for Christ as a “good” one of them. Three of these people stare at a tomb in one painting by Nicolas Poussin. For the points, name these people shown in Et in Arcadia ego and other pastoral paintings tending their ﬂocks.---World War II-era military testing of this weapon made Gruinard [grin-yerd] Island uninhabitable until 1990, after hundreds of tons of formaldehyde were used to decontaminate the island. That testing showed that Operation (+) Vegetarian, a plan to inﬂict this weapon on Germany via linseed cakes, would have killed millions of civilians who ate contaminated (*) beef. The history of defense against this weapon includes the 1954 introduction of a human vaccine and the 1987 introduction of Cipro, an antibiotic. For the points, name this biological weapon spread by spores, used in postal terrorism shortly after the 9/11 attacks.---This leader embezzled from his own National Defense Corps’ food budget; tens of thousands of men starved during a three-week-long “death march” undertaken to “train” the NDC. This leader ordered the (+) December Massacres after his opponent’s capital was recaptured in 1950. This ruler, who put down the (*) Jeju uprising at the beginning of his rule, was forced into exile in Hawaii by the 1960 April Revolution, and he was replaced by Yun Bosun. For the points, name this dictator, the ﬁrst president of South Korea.---The Roanoke Times claimed that Benjamin Bolling killed this man to prevent him from indiscriminately using colonial troops. John Forbes led an operation that attempted the (+) same goal as an earlier venture led by this man; that campaign was ﬁnally defeated by Daniel Li´enard de Beaujeau [boh-zhoh] at the Battle of (*) Monongahela and was thus unable to capture Fort Duquesne [do-cane]. For the points, name this French and Indian War general who died during his failed 1755 expedition, despite the assistance of a young George Washington.---The most important part of this organization, Group 11, was fed information by the system called (+) Chain Home. Its outspoken leader, Hugh Dowding, was replaced in favor of a supporter of Traﬀord Leigh-Mallory’s Big (*) Wings. This organization was the target of Eagle Day and its innovative use of radar allowed it to respond to the Blitz. For the points, name this organization that ﬂew Hurricanes and Spitﬁres to defend the skies from the Luftwaﬀe.---The daughter-in-law of a character played by this actor is burned alive in a church by a British colonel; this actor played Benjamin Martin in that ﬁlm, whose climactic scene is the Colonial victory at Cowpens. This star of The (+) Patriot directed a ﬁlm in which a Seventh-day Adventist medic helps wounded soldiers to safety during the Battle of Okinawa. This actor starred in a (*) 1995 ﬁlm in which he yells “Freedom!” before being decapitated, shortly after he lost at Falkirk. For the points, name this Oscar-nominated director of Hacksaw Ridge who played William Wallace in Braveheart.---This man’s calls for a “Great Instauration” were connected with the Rosicrucian Manifestos in the 17th-century. Though not Edward de Vere, this man was the ﬁrst historical ﬁgure accused of actually writing (+) Shakespeare’s plays. This man identiﬁed four separate misconceptions faced by human beings during the pursuit of knowledge as (*) “idols” and laid forth his technique of inductive reasoning in his The New Atlantis. The island of Bensalem was created by, for the points, what early English philosopher who is often called the father of the scientiﬁc method? Francis Bacon (prompt on Bacon)---One side in this conﬂict named a newly captured stronghold Fort Long because Huey Long had adamantly argued on their behalf in a lengthy congressional speech. Hans Kundt [koont] resigned his general’s command in this war after thousands of his country’s troops surrendered in the (+) Campo Via Pocket. Jose Estigarribia was promoted to general for his prowess in this war, whose competing sides were (*) funded by Royal Dutch Shell and Standard Oil. For the points, name this 1930s war fought between Paraguay and Bolivia over an arid, ultimately oil-dry region of South America.---In 1944, the SS Richard Montgomery struck a sandbar and sunk in the mouth of this river while holding hundreds of tons of explosives. This river’s estuary is home to the Shivering Sands and Red Sands forts, which were designed by Guy Maunsell to provide (+) anti-air protection. Several plans have been proposed to build a man-made island in this river’s estuary, possibly near Cliﬀe in (*) Kent, for use by a new airport to alleviate congestion at Gatwick and Heathrow. For the points, name this river that, during World War II, provided ground-based navigation for the Luftwaﬀe as they tried to bomb London.---A woman from this family captured and held Castel Sant’Angelo against the College of Cardinals while seven months pregnant and was captured while ﬁghting Cesare Borgia. In addition to Caterina, the “Lion of Forl´ı,” another member of this family served as a condotierro for (+) Filip Maria Visconti before betraying the Golden Ambrosian Republic to attain his highest position. Another member of this family commissioned (*) da Vinci’s Last Supper and was known as Il Moro. Francesco and Ludovico belonged to, for the points, what ducal family that ruled Milan?---This state installed a client king with the Treaty of Rhandeia, despite several defeats to the general Corbulo. The founder of this state was a governor under the Bactrian Diodotus. It fought several wars against Tigranes the Great, who ruled (+) Armenia to the west, using its heavily armored cataphracts. This empire moved its capital to Ctesiphon [tess-ih-phon] on the (*) Tigris in the ﬁrst century BC, and it was overthrown by Ardashir I of the Sassanids in 224 AD. For the points, name this Persian empire that triumphed over Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae.---This man worked with Ahaya the Cowkeeper in an unsuccessful attempt to besiege Saint Augustine during the War of Jenkins’ Ear. He advocated for better rights for members of the Royal Navy in his pamphlet “The (+) Sailor’s Advocate” and befriended the chief Tomochichi of the Yamacraw, after the ship Anne had taken him to their land. Earlier, this man led a Parliamentary committee on (*) prison reform, which inspired him to found a haven for debtors. For the points, name this founder of the colony of Georgia. Oglethorpe---This city’s Chinatown district is home to the Sri Mariamann Temple, which was created by Naraina Pillai. The Suntec City complex in this city includes the Fountain of Wealth, which was once the (+) world’s largest fountain. Moshe Safdie was inspired by decks of cards for his design of a three-tower resort in this city called the (*) Marina Bay Sands. The Armenian Sarkies Brothers founded a luxury hotel in this city in 1887 and named it for this city’s founder, Sir Stamford Raﬄes. For the points, name this Southeast Asian city-state whose economy has ﬂourished in the ﬁve decades since it was expelled from Malaysia.---The development of this industry caused a disaster near the city of Ciudad del Carmen in a location called Sedco 135-F. The Mexican Eagle company was founded in this industry by Weetman (+) Pearson. At the founding of a company in this industry, women donated chickens to the Mexican government to fund debt payments. This industry was (*) nationalized by Lazaro Cardenas in 1938, creating the company PEMEX. For the points, name this industry that caused the Ixtoc I [eesh-tok 1] spill from a rig in the Bay of Campeche.---A deported Communist Party member named Ephram Nestor challenged one section of this law. The case Steward Machine Co. v. Davis sought to clarify if a tax that was part of this law violated the (+) Fifth Amendment. This law may have been an attempt to counter the rising popularity of Francis Townshend, who devised a plan involving $200 (*) payments. This law created the AFDC, which provided help for low-income children, and its Title 3 introduced nationwide unemployment insurance. For the points, name this 1935 law that created a program funded by payroll taxes that assists the elderly.---
Richard Nixon (accept Nixon in China)---Delian League---Amritsar Massacre (accept Jallianwala Bagh massacre before mentioned)---Page 1 ---Alexander Suvorov---(Chinese, Mahayana, Chan, and/or Pure Land) Buddhist monks (prompt on Buddhists; prompt on pilgrims or similar terms; prompt on Chinese people)---Hatshepsut---(Second) Battle of Tannenberg Page 2 ---William Randolph Hearst---U.S. Route 66 (prompt on Mother Road before mentioned; prompt on Will Rogers Highway)---Independent Self-governing Trade Union Solidarity (or Solidarno´s´c) This scandal was exacerbated by contemporary commentary delivered by Margaret---prompt thereafter) Page 3 ---Jared Mason Diamond---Robert Boyle---Xinhai Revolution (or Revolution of 1911; accept Wuchang Uprising until mentioned; fall of the Qing Dynasty) accept descriptions of the---Wood (accept Fernando and/or Leonard Wood)---Page 4 ---Johann Wolfgang von Goethe---1924 Democratic National Convention (accept Klanbake until “Klan” is mentioned, prompting thereafter; accept 1924 DNC; prompt on partial answers)---Tahrir Square (accept Midan Tahrir; accept Liberation Square; accept Martyr Square; despite not being in the given title or “next to” the Mogamma, you can prompt on Cairo after “Lara Logan” is read and before it is mentioned)---Olaf Page 5 ---James Buchanan, Jr.---princely state (or native state; prompt on descriptions of states in India and/or the British Raj)---shepherds (accept The Adoration of the Shepherds; accept The Good Shepherd)---anthrax (prompt on generic descriptions of biological weapons, bacterial weapons, poison, etc., before “biological weapon” is read) Page 6 ---Syngman Rhee---General Edward Braddock (accept the Braddock Expedition, Campaign, etc.) This organization developed new technology after the report of the Tizard Commission.---Royal Air Force (or RAF; accept descriptive answers regarding the British air force; prompt on descriptive answers of the British armed forces, including the British army)---Mel Gibson---Sir Page 7 ---Gran Chaco War (accept the War of Thirst)---River Thames---Sforza family---Parthian Empire (prompt on Persia before mentioned)---James Page 8 ---(Republic of) Singapore---Mexican oil industry (accept equivalents such as petroleum industry)---Social Security Act (or Bill or Law) Page 9---