Nats---True---125
One rearguard action after this battle was defeated at the Battle of Kip’s Landing, though John Glover’s Marblehead ﬁshermen provided a more successful rearguard at Pell’s Point. General Alexander Stirling was captured at this battle, where the Gowanus Heights were fortiﬁed by (+) Israel Putnam but the Jamaica Road was left unguarded. That road was used by Henry Clinton to outﬂank the American defenders, although he let them escape after declining to attack (*) Brooklyn Heights. For the point, name this August 1776 Revolutionary War battle, after which George Washington lost control of New York.---During this event, a character foreshadows that “stony limits cannot hold love out.” The modern setting for this event was foreign to the author; instead, this scene’s modern staging was introduced by Thomas Otway’s highly-imitative History and Fall of Caius Marius , during which (+) Lavinia says “be but sworn my Love / and I’ll no longer call Metellus parent.” The line “But (*) soft! What light through yonder window breaks?” opens, for the point, what scene that traditionally takes place in and above the Capulets’ garden in Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet ?---Ralph Abercromby put down Fedon’s Rebellion in this modern day country. This country’s namesake seventeen were responsible for overthrowing and executing one of its leaders at Fort Rupert. This country’s ﬁrst Prime Minister silenced critics with the help of the (+) Mongoose Gang. Eric Gairy was deposed by the New Jewel Movement in this country. Shortly after the execution of Maurice (*) Bishop, this country was targeted by Operation Urgent Fury. For the point, name this Caribbean island country that was invaded by the United States in 1983.---The Convention of Aguascalientes [ag-wah-skal-ee-ehn-tays] called on this general to resign from power, though he only retreated to Veracruz. Six years later, as an elected leader, this man controversially named Ignacio (+) Bonillas [boh-NEE-yahs] as his preferred ´ successor. As a result, Alvaro Obreg´on’s supporters plotted the Plan of (*) Agua Prieta to end this man’s rule, and he was killed in May 1920. For the point, name this Mexican revolutionary leader who ousted Victoriano Huerta and gained power over Mexico, becoming its ﬁrst President under the Constitution of 1917. Carranza Garza---Description acceptable. For their participation in this activity, husband-and-wife team Serge and Beate Klarsfeld were targeted by an unsuccessful car bombing in 1979. The ODESSA network set up numerous (+) “ratlines” to help targets of this activity escape. This activity was successfully undertaken on Garibaldi Avenue in (*) Buenos Aires on May 11, 1960, and was pursued by Simon Wiesenthal. For the point, name this activity, carried out by Mossad, to ﬁnd and bring people like Adolf Eichmann to trial.---This city was divided into districts dedicated to Anu and the goddess Inanna, the latter of whom is depicted in the Mask of Warka found at this city. In a regional King List, this city earned its ﬁfth listed dynasty under Utu-hengal, though Ur-Namma quickly brought its rival back to power. (+) Enmerkar is credited with founding this city on what was then the banks of the Euphrates, which fueled a system of canals within this (*) Sumerian city. This city’s walls were legendarily built by a man who was one-third mortal. For the point, name this Sumerian city legendarily ruled by Gilgamesh.---This architect created an Azerbaijani building that avoided sharp angles named the Heydar Aliyev Center. This student of Rem Koolhaas created a building for the production of 3 Series sedans in Leipzig called the (+) BMW Central building. One of this architect’s buildings used the “double pebble” design; Turandot was the ﬁrst work performed in that building, the Guangzhou (*) Opera House. For the point, name this Iraqi woman who became the ﬁrst female and ﬁrst Muslim Pritzker Architecture Prize winner in 2004 and passed away in 2016.---Prior to this event, despite iron rivets tearing holes due to hull twisting, the Viking expedition succeeded. Near the end of this event, Patrick Eugene Prendergast assassinated Carter Harrison. H. H. (+) Holmes operated his “Murder Castle” during this event, where Frederick Jackson Turner ﬁrst described his Frontier thesis. Daniel (*) Burnham helped design the “White City” for, for the point, what 1893 World’s Fair held in Chicago that commemorated the quadricentennial of a voyage to the New World?---This monarch successfully pushed for abolishing the Remplacement system for military conscription. This monarch married his mistress Caroline Lacroix ﬁve days before his death, and survived an assassination attempt by Genaro (+) Rubio. Mark Twain criticized this man’s policies in a soliloquy named after him. This man formed the Force Publique to enforce his rule in a certain area, but was criticized in the (*) Casement Report, which detailed atrocities inﬂicted upon rubber harvesters. For the point, name this Belgian monarch best known for his exploitation of the Congo Free State.---One of these people is told “First prize often goes to rank beginners” by the Proprietor, who hands him an “Ivor Johnson...32...rubber handle.” In a duet, two of these people beg “Let me prove worthy of your love” to the unseen Charlie and Jodie. The song (+) “Everybody’s Got the Right” opens the musical in which these people appear; in a reprise of that song, these people (*) open ﬁre on the audience. For the point, name these people, the title ﬁgures of a Stephen Sondheim musical whose numbers include “The Gun Song” and “November 22, 1963.”---Term 3 of the Jackson-Vanik Amendment addressed the “Diploma Tax” imposed on these people. Natan Sharansky was initially a human rights activist for these people, who comprised the majority of the refuseniks. These people were accused of conspiring to kill (+) Josef Stalin as part of the Doctors Plot. Henry Kissinger was criticized for saying that it would not be an American concern if these people were sent to the (*) gas chambers. For the point, name this religious group that, towards the end of Mikhail Gorbachev’s leadership, emigrated en masse to Israel.---A highly effective ambulance corps was implemented during this war by the Letterman system. It didn’t involve France, but women called vivandieres assisted troops during this war. Richard Kirkland’s assistance to the wounded at a battle in this war earned him the nickname “The Angel of (+) Marye’s Height.” The Christian Commission and the Sanitary Commission were founded during this war. Nurses who served during this war included (*) Dorothea Dix and a woman who founded the American Red Cross. For the point, name this war in which Clara Barton served as a nurse at battles like Fredericksburg.---This man tried to destroy his second symphony, written to celebrate American ﬁghter pilots in World War II. He expressed longing for his Mount Kisco home in the neoclassical Capricorn Concerto . A prose poem by James Agee provided the text of his Knoxville: Summer of 1915 . Another piece by this partner of (+) Gian Carlo Menotti was arranged from the second movement of his string quartet and was played on air to mourn the (*) deaths of Franklin Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy. For the point, name this American composer of the Adagio for Strings.---This action was the subject of a 1997 book by Anatoli Boukreev, who defended his decision not to wait for others while doing this. Maurice Wilson tried to perform it as a way of demonstrating to the world the power of fasting and prayer. Both Rob Hall and Scott Fischer (+) died trying to do this. When asked why he wanted to do this, George Mallory was quoted as saying “Because it’s there.” Jon Krakauer’s book (*) Into Thin Air discusses an attempt at this action, undertaken by a New Zealander serving in Colonel John Hunt’s expedition in 1953. For the point, name this feat, ﬁrst accomplished by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary.---This ruler built a series of forts called the Ripa Sarmatica along the Danube for a man who defeated the Persians at the Battle of Satala. This ruler rose to his highest position after Carus was struck by (+) lightning. This ruler created a system that was oﬃcially ended by Constantine the Great’s “principle of succession” and failed to curb inﬂation with his Edict of (*) Maximum Prices. For the point, name this Roman Emperor who ruled alongside Galerius after establishing the Tetrarchy and embarked on the last major persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire.---The winner of this election year supported the Biemiller plank. During this election year, Arthur Vandenberg, Harold Stassen, and Robert Taft failed to stop the nomination of a Republican Governor of New York. The (+) Roerich letter damaged the Progressive Henry Wallace in this election. Then-Governor of California Earl Warren and Alben Barkley were the main (*) vice presidential candidates in, for the point, what presidential election in which the Chicago Daily Tribune incorrectly printed “Dewey defeats Truman”?---The head of this leader’s intelligence agency was caught giving bribes to various news channels in the Vladi-videos. Operation Chavin de Huantar was launched by this leader to end an Embassy hostage crisis. This leader’s death squad attacked a barbecue party, believing it to be a Marxist gathering, in the Barrios Altos massacre. This leader of the (+) Grupo Colina death squad won the “Internal conﬂict” against the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement and the (*) Shining Path Guerillas. For the point, name this former President of Peru who was ousted on corruption charges in 2000, after which he ﬂed to Japan. Fujimori---In preparation for this offensive, Antoine Bethouart attempted to overthrow Charles Nogues. Henri Giraud commented he would remain a “spectator in this affair” after he was denied the post of commander in chief. In the aftermath of this offensive, Vichy France was (+) occupied by Germany, a move that led the French to scuttle their ﬂeets at Toulon. During one portion of this oﬀensive, the Jean Bart used her only functioning gun to shell Allied troops who were attempting to take (*) Casablanca. For the point, name this 1942 Allied oﬀensive that involved numerous landings across North Africa.---In medieval legend, this man used a large chunk of beef to torment two hungry griﬃns that he used to ﬂy to heaven. Orientalist scholar Theodor N¨oldeke identiﬁed this real-life person with the “two-horned” Quranic ﬁgure Dhul-Qarnayn. Medievals depicted this member of the (+) Nine Worthies in many namesake “romances,” which drew loosely on the historian Arrian. In real life, the snake-handler Olympias gave birth to this man, who declared himself to be the son of (*) Zeus-Ammon while in Egypt. For the point, name this conqueror-king whose army marched to India from Macedon.---One person with this surname left Antigua as a teenager to inherit lands on the Waccamaw River and the Wappoo Creek. Another person with this surname got Andrew Ellicott to survey a border to the east of the (+) Chattahoochee as part of an agreement with Manuel Godoy. This is the married name of Eliza Lucas, who introduced indigo to America. John Marshall and (*) Elbridge Gerry supported an ambassador with this name in the XYZ Aﬀair. For the point, give this surname of the negotiator of the Treaty of San Lorenzo and the losing Federalist of the 1804 and 1808 elections, two South Carolinian diplomats.---the Grattan massacre. This site was the ﬁnal destination of John “Portuguese” Phillips’ 236-mile ride to bring news of the Fetterman Massacre. A 1851 (+) treaty signed at this location guaranteeing the territorial rights of various Great Plains tribes was abrogated and totally ignored during the Pike’s Peak Gold Rush. A later treaty signed at this location closed down forts along the (*) Bozeman Trail, and gave the Black Hills to the Sioux “permanently.” Red Cloud’s War was ended by a treaty named for, for the point, what Army outpost in Wyoming? Laramie---Hendrik Verwoerd responded to this leader by saying that there must “also be justice to the white man.” This leader, who claimed his country “has never had it so good,” was scandalized after it was uncovered that Christine Keeler was in a relationship with Secretary of State for War John (+) Profumo. This leader declared that decolonization is inevitable in a speech given in Cape Town that observed the title phenomenon (*) “blowing through” Africa. For the point, name this Conservative Prime Minister of Great Britain who gave the “Wind of Change” speech.---Baldur von Schirach and Artur Axmann were leaders of this organization. Members of this organization made up the majority of Kurt “Panzer” Meyer’s 12th SS Panzer Division. Despite nominally being part of it, Hans Scholl, a member of the White (+) Rose, opposed this organization’s beliefs. Members of this organization served as “ﬂak helpers” manning antiaircraft guns, and many were recruited into the (*) Volksturm alongside veterans of previous wars at the end of World War II. The Bund Deutscher M¨adel was a branch of this organization that enrolled girls. For the point, name this organization for young people in Nazi Germany.---A Presbyterian example of these ﬁgures travels with Ralpho and is the namesake of Samuel Butler’s poem “Hudibras.” One of these ﬁgures loses his wits, after which another named Astolfo travels to the (+) moon to ﬁnd them. That ﬁrst example of these ﬁgures loves the pagan Angelica and kills King (*) Agramante, and is based on one of these who blows his oliphant horn before dying in an ambush in the Pyrenees. For the point, name these medieval ﬁgures, such as Roland and the warriors of the Round Table.---A French Mirage 2000 jet was shot down by forces carrying out this event near the town of Pale. The “Romeo and Juliet” of this event’s location were killed while trying to cross the Vrbanja [vir-bahn-ya] Bridge, which was part of Sniper Alley. Mortar shell attacks on the (+) Markale Marketplace during this event were used to justify the NATO-led Operation Deliberate Force. This event ended shortly after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which ended a conﬂict where the Republic of (*) Srpska tried to unify with Serbia. For the point, name this almost 4-year-long siege of a capital city during the Bosnian War. Sarajevo---This leader initially gave support to Plinio Salgado’s Integralists in order to suppress communism in his country. “The Black Angel” was the head of this leader’s bodyguards, who plotted an assassination attempt against journalist Carlos (+) Lacerda; that scandal led this leader to write the Letter of Testament shortly before committing suicide. The rise to power of this “Father of the Poor” led to the end of his country’s (*) “coﬀee and milk” politics. A South American Estado Novo was established by, for the point, what President of Brazil during the 1930s?---In 2008, Lakhdar Boumediene’s failure to receive this procedure was found to be unconstitutional, a year after Alberto Gonzales testiﬁed that the Constitiution doesn’t protect this right, but merely prevents its loss. A state legislator attempted to use this procedure from (+) Fort McHenry, but was blocked. Even though Chief Justice Roger Taney ruled that this procedure could not be (*) suspended, Abraham Lincoln refused to follow Taney’s ruling in Ex parte Merryman. For the point, name this legal writ through which one can protest unlawful detainment in front of a judge, from the Latin for “You should produce the body.”---In 1957, the man holding this position was demoted to head of the Economics Institute after he joined one of his predecessors in the failed Anti-Party Group plot. After another man in this post lied about airlifting food, he had his name appended to the RRAB-3 (+) bomb dispenser. This position was held for over 28 years by Andrei Gromyko and for 10 years by a man who signed a 1939 agreement with German (*) counterpart Joachim von Ribbentrop. For the point, name this position held during World War II by Vyacheslav Molotov, in which capacity he signed a non-aggression pact with Germany.---The Japanese cruise ship Haguro was sunk in this body of water, which shares its name with a sultanate founded by Parameswara. The state of Negeri Sembilan has a coastline on this body of water, just a few miles southeast of a city in the Klang Valley where the (+) Petronas Towers were built. The signiﬁcance of this body of water to international trade would be reduced by a canal through the Isthmus of (*) Kra, as proposed by Thailand. For the point, name this strait that separates the Malay Peninsula from the island of Sumatra. Malacca (or Malacca Strait)---In this city, a controversial paciﬁst “oath” was adopted after the King and Country debate. The Tracts for the Times were published in this city by a group including Edward Pusey. In this city, men nicknamed “Soapy Sam” and “Darwin’s (+) Bulldog” participated in the Wilberforce-Huxley debate over evolution. The future Cardinal Newman led a religious movement named for this city. Hugh Latimer, Nicholas Ridley, and Thomas (*) Cranmer were burnt at the stake in this city. For the point, name this English city home to a university which has a rivalry with Cambridge.---Margaret Thatcher’s son Mark was imprisoned after supporting a 2004 coup attempt in this country. Prisoners in this country were executed to the tune of the song “Those Were the Days” by a ﬁring squad dressed up as (+) Santa Claus. This country, which gained independence under Francisco Macias Nguema, is currently led by his nephew, Teodoro Obiang. Oil reserves oﬀ of (*) Bioko Island heavily bolster the GDP, if not the general welfare of, for the point, what former Spanish colony in Sub-Saharan Africa whose capital is Malabo?---In William Charles’s cartoon “Leap No Leap,” King George III encourages two men representing Rhode Island and Massachusetts to come to him by promising them “plenty molasses and [this resource].” William Pitt the Elder called this resource “British (+) Gold,” and in the 1783 Treaty of Paris, Britain and the U.S. agreed to share this resource harvested oﬀ the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. A series of (*) bloodless wars named for this resource began after Iceland extended its claims in the North Atlantic. For the point, name this ﬁsh that names a hook-shaped peninsula in Massachusetts.---Ed Macauley and Cliﬀ Hagan were traded to St. Louis for this player during a draft that provided this player with teammates K.C. Jones and Tommy Heinsohn. The Finals (+) MVP award is now named for this man; it was ﬁrst awarded in 1969 to Jerry West, whose Lakers (*) lost to this player-coach’s team for the sixth time in a decade. For the point, name this ﬁrst African-American coach in the NBA, a rival of Wilt Chamberlain and 11-time NBA champion center for the Boston Celtics.---Daniel Horsmanden led trials after this colony’s supposed Negro Insurrection of 1741. Timothy Ruggles chaired an organization in this colony that passed the Declaration of Rights and Grievances protesting the 1765 Stamp Act. Governor Francis (+) Nicholson ﬂed this colony due to a rebellion led by Jacob Leisler. Prior to becoming an English colony, it was led by Peter (*) Stuyvesant, who oversaw the building of Broad Street in its largest city. For the point, name this American colony whose largest city served as national capital under the Constitution, preceding Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. New York---Initial refusers of the validity of this document, such as Theonas of Marmarica and Secundus of Ptolemais, were exiled to Illyria. This document declares one ﬁgure to be “homoousios” in order to support (+) Athanasius’s theology. This document was amended at a meeting that rejected Damasus I’s inﬂuence, and diﬀerent versions of it either have or omit the word (*) “ﬁlioque.” For the point, name this creed, ﬁrst written at a 325 AD church council, that countered Arianism by pledging belief in Jesus and God “being of one substance.”---The “Arm of the Arab Revolution” led by Carlos the Jackal held hostages in this city. Gabriel D’Annunzio dropped thousands of propaganda leaﬂets over this city during a “ﬂight over” it. A ﬁlm set in this city included (+) zither music by Anton Karas and a screenplay by Graham Greene; that ﬁlm, The Third Man, was set during its Allied occupation. The (*) Kahlenberg hill lies within this city, where King Jan Sobieski of Poland repelled Ottoman forces in 1683. For the point, name this former resident city of the Habsburgs and capital city of Austria.---promotion to brigadier general. Its leader later lamented its failure by saying his group was “sneaking home under cover, like a whipped cur with its tail between its legs.” During this event, Lieutenant (+) George Patton strapped three captives to the hoods of his convoy after winning a skirmish against Julio Cardenas. Launched in retaliation for an earlier attack on (*) Columbus, New Mexico, it was led by “Black Jack” Pershing. For the point, name this 1916 to 1917 U.S. military operation that failed to capture a Mexican revolutionary.---Both William S. Clark and Horace Capron developed the agriculture and industry of this island. Pavel Lebedev-Lastochkin sent a trade mission to this island, where he met the Matsumae. Shakushain revolted on this island, which was the center of a government supported by (+) Jules Brunet and based on American democracy. That government, led by Enomoto Takeaki, was ousted after the Battle of (*) Hakodate after being formed by the shogun who had lost the Boshin War. The Republic of Ezo was based on, for the point, what island home of the Ainu, the northernmost of Japan’s four main islands?---This pathogen’s most recent pandemic is caused by its El Tor biotype. This bacterium’s namesake toxin activates constitutive cyclic AMP production and causes dumping of water into the intestinal lumen. The UN invoked diplomatic immunity after (+) Nepalese peacekeepers were accused of spreading this pathogen. One outbreak of this disease was traced back to the Broad Street (*) pump using a dot map by John Snow, and the most recent epidemic of this disease followed a 2010 earthquake. For the point, name this disease that causes rice water diarrhea and is still ravaging Haiti.---A speech given in support of this agreement claimed that “the gains from this agreement will be your gains too.” The passage of this agreement led to a surge in the number of cheap-labor factories called (+) maquiladoras. Ross Perot made opposing the ratiﬁcation of this agreement a central pillar in his platform for his 1992 presidential campaign, claiming that it would make a “giant sucking sound going (*) south.” The Zapatista movement declared open rebellion against a signatory of, for the point, what 1994 agreement that dramatically lowered or eliminated tariﬀs between Canada, Mexico, and the United States?---
Battle of Long Island (accept Battle of Brooklyn Heights before “Brooklyn Heights” is read)---Romeo and Juliet’s balcony scene (accept Act 2, Scene 2 of Romeo and Juliet)---Grenada---Jos´e Venustiano Page 1 ---hunting (or searching, etc.) for ex-Nazis (accept anything that mentions attempting to capture ex-Nazis; between the mentions of Simon Wiesenthal and Adolf Eichmann, accept capturing Adolf Eichmann speciﬁcally)---Uruk (accept Erech or Eresh; accept Unug-Kulaba; do not accept or prompt on Ur)---Zaha Hadid---Columbian Exposition (or 1893 World’s Fair or 1893 Chicago World’s Fair before 1893 is read, prompting on partial answers; do not accept 1933 Chicago World Fair) Page 2 ---King Leopold II---Presidential Assassins (accept descriptions and equivalents)---Soviet Jews (accept Russian Jews; prompt on partial answers)---American Civil War---Samuel Barber Page 3 ---climbing (or ascending) Mount Everest (accept Sagarmatha or Chomolungma for Everest)---Diocletian (or Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus)---United States presidential election of 1948---Alberto Page 4 ---Operation Torch (accept Operation Gymnast; prompt on descriptions of Allied invasions of North Africa before “North Africa” is read)---Alexander the Great (or Alexander III of Macedonia)---Pinckney A small expedition of 31 troops from this location were killed to the last man in---Fort Page 5 ---Harold MacMillan---Hitler Youth (prompt on Bund Deutscher M¨adel before mentioned; prompt on Deutsches Jungvolk, prompt on Nazi Party)---knights (accept paladins; prompt on soldiers, crusaders, cavaliers, etc.; prompt on Parliamentarians or Roundheads before “pagan” is read)---Siege of Page 6 ---Getulio Vargas---writ of habeus corpus---Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs of the Soviet Union (or Narkomindel; or People’s Commissar for Foreign Aﬀairs of the Soviet Union; or Minister of External Relations of the Soviet Union; accept Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for “Soviet Union”)---Strait of Page 7 ---Oxford---Republic of Equatorial Guinea (do not accept or prompt on Guinea)---cod (accept Cod Wars; accept Cape Cod; prompt on ﬁsh)---William Felton “Bill” Russell---Province of Page 8 ---Nicene Creed (or Nicene-Constantinople Creed, or word forms)---Vienna (or Wien) During this event, George Dodd’s successful 7th Cavalry charge later led to his---Pershing Expedition (or Pancho Villa Expedition; or Punitive Expedition; prompt on Mexican Expedition)---Hokkaido---cholera (accept Vibrio cholerae, do not accept or prompt on dysentery) Page 9 ---North American Free Trade Agreement Page 10---