Nats---True---127
A group of pirates attacked and defeated a 147-man garrison on Iki Island in this body of water, a part of the larger Toi invasion. A disembarkation in this body of water occurred during the Battle of (+) Bun'ei. The Fukuoka Castle was built upon this body of water, as was the oldest Shingon temple in Kyushu. This body of water often names an engagement in which a Goryeo-allied force was thwarted by the (*) kamikaze. A Yuan Dynasty invasion force was defeated in, for the point, what bay, via which the Mongols attempted to invade Japan?---These people operated workshops to harvest Spondylus shells to produce jewelry and currency, with their free divers travelling over 55 yards to capture the bivalve. In modern Punta Lobos, these people massacred 200 fisherman in the 14th century as a sacrifice to their personification of the (+) Pacific Ocean, Ni. These non- Inca people provided the precious metals to build the temple of Coricancha, dedicated to the sun God Inti, after they were conquered by Tupac (*) Yupanqui [[yoo- pahn-KEY]]. For the point, name this Pre-Columbian, coastal Peruvian society centered on the city of Chan Chan.---L.E. Hunt claimed that the leniency this man received may have indicated he was a double agent. Cyril Hamshere claimed that this man was doomed to fail in one undertaking due to the small size of an invading (+) Spanish force. This man's plans were revealed after the capture and confession of Charles Baillie. John Lesley and the Duke of Norfolk were arrested for their role in that (*) conspiracy planned by this man, who served as a senator in Florence. For the point, name this Italian banker who attempted to replace Elizabeth I with Mary, Queen of Scots in a namesake plot.---Thirteen countries attended a 1934 Fascist International conference in this city overseen by Eugenio Coselschi. The system of capitulations in Egypt was abolished in an agreement signed in this city. A (+) 1936 convention in this city led to the remilitarization of the Bosporus and Dardanelles straits by the government of Kemal Ataturk. The song “Smoke on (*) the Water” references the burning of a casino at an event in this city on Lake Geneva. For the point, name this Swiss city that holds an annual jazz festival.---This man's success as a lawyer allowed him to build the first fireproof building in San Francisco. This general’s scholarly work, Elements of Military Art and Science, contributed to his nickname “Old (+) Brains.” This man's only victory on the field of battle was in Mississippi at the Siege of Corinth. Abraham Lincoln was disappointed with the leadership of this general, whom he referred to as “little more than a (*) first- rate clerk.” For the point, name this Civil War general who, from 1862 to 1864, commanded all Union armies following the failure of McClellan's Peninsula Campaign.---An agreement in this city secured four of the 21 cabinet positions in one country for members of the Republican Democratic Movement. Ali Hassan Mwinyi helped negotiate that (+) 1993 agreement in this city, which was the namesake of a 1967 political document claiming that “above all, the TANU is a party of Peasants and Workers.” A peace aimed at ending the Rwandan (*) Civil War was signed in this city, which names a document that outlines the Ujamaa ideology. Julius Nyerere named a political “Declaration” after, for the point, what city in eastern Tanzania?---Michael Nowicki and this man helped redesign Brandeis University. In 1970, two bombs exploded while rock bands protested at the Black Panther trials at this architect's Ingalls Rink. A Bell Labs complex at Holmdel, which was called "The Biggest (+) Mirror ever," was designed by this man. This architect developed the Tulip Chair which was produced by the Knoll company, and part of this man's construction for the TWA (*) Flight Center was converted into a hotel at JFK Airport. For the point, name this Finnish-American architect who designed the Gateway Arch in St. Louis.---During this effort, a scout named Nitanis reported a large number of Native Americans around the Chaudière [[sha-dee-EH]] River. A twelve-mile portage known as the Great Carrying Place was set up during this campaign, in which one side fought a regiment led by Allan (+) Maclean. Guy Carleton was suspected of sending spies to the leader of this expedition, which ascended the Kennebec River. Richard (*) Montgomery led a similar effort to this campaign that traversed Lake Champlain. For the point, name this 1775 expedition which led to a battle in a major Canadian city, led by Benedict Arnold.---In one opera by this composer, Indiana Elliott’s brother attempts to thwart his sister’s marriage to Jo the Loiterer. This composer wrote the soundtrack for a Pare Lorentz film focusing on the Dust Bowl. Dorothy (+) Dow premiered as the title character in one of his operas with a libretto by Gertrude Stein. That opera by this composer features Anthony Comstock, who focuses on a woman who gets a statue unveiled in the (*) Capitol after her suffrage efforts. For the point, name this composer of The Mother of Us All and Four Saints in Three Acts.---Debate exists as to whether Louis Howe or James Kieran originated the term for this group. The claim that "Capitalism was saved in eight days” was made by one of this group's members, Raymond (+) Moley. During World War Two, one of this group's original members served as Puerto Rico’s governor. Rexford Tugwell was a member of this group, another of whom developed the term “Forgotten (*) Man” that was often used in speeches. For the point, name this group of highly educated advisors to FDR who implemented New Deal policies.---The third king of this name died from poisoned communion wine administered by disloyal nobles from Tao. A king with this name refused Alexios Komnenos' title of Panhypersebastos in an attempt to assert his (+) Orthodox nation's independence. That king of this name expelled the Seljuk Turks from his nation at the Battle of Didgori [[did-gore-ee]], later moving his center to (*) Tbilisi. For the point, give this biblical name of twelve kings of the Bagrationi of Georgia, including the fourth who was known as "The Builder."---In this work, its author speaks of an ignorance he calls the “great forgetting.” The writings of Jules Marchal are extensively cited in this work, which notes how one man decorated a flower garden with human (+) heads. A line from a Vachel Lindsay poem inspired the title of this work, which describes the practice of severing hands of workers. Strict quotas on (*) rubber production are described in this book, subtitled “A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa”. For the point, name this Adam Hochschild book about the atrocities committed in the Congo Free State.---In response to this event, Governor William Bull passed an act prohibiting certain people from moving abroad, assembling in groups, raising food, earning money, or learning to write. This event included an attack on Hutchinson's Store and the deaths of more than (+) 70 people before it was stopped near the Edisto River. During this event, participants marched toward Spanish Florida from South (*) Carolina carrying a banner that read “Liberty!” For the point, name this slave revolt led by a man referred to as either Jemmy or Cato.---This kingdom's ruler Bhadravarman I launched campaigns against Rinan and Jiuzhen while building coastal tower temples. One ruler of this kingdom known as the Red King demanded military support from the Hongwu Emperor before sacking (+) Thăng Long four times. That ruler of this kingdom, Po Binasuor, is often regarded as the last strong king of this kingdom before its conquest by the Dai (*) Viet. Following the conquest of Minh Mang, this kingdom was reduced to a rump state around the capital of Panduranga. For the point, name this Hindu kingdom that controlled southern Vietnam from the second century CE to 1832.---This man was victorious in a battle which involved the breaking of a truce by Quintus Fabius Ambustus and his brothers. This man's attempts to scale one location allegedly resulted in the cackling of the geese of Juno. Marcus Manlius (+) Capitolinus once faced off against this victor at the Battle of the Allia. This man was given a reply of "not by gold, but by iron, is the nation to be recovered" after an argument over the (*) weight of a ransom, prompting him to cry “vae victis!” For the point, name this Gallic chieftain who oversaw the 390 B.C. sack of Rome.---Captain Robert Ensor was wounded during this event, in which all 128 captives aboard the namesake brig were offered freedom when the ship arrived in Nassau. Madison Washington and the nineteen engineers of this (+) revolt were imprisoned on charges of mutiny but were released after the British Admiralty Court deemed they had the right to use force to gain their freedom. Overshadowed by the earlier (*) Amistad case, For the point, what is this “most successful slave revolt in U.S. history” aboard a namesake American slave ship in November 1841?---Albert Johnson argued that this agreement was intended to restrict a loophole involving passage through Mexico. A result of this agreement was the influx of “picture (+) brides” who were able to get around its limitations by being spouses of members of the group it affected. This 1907 agreement negotiated by Teddy Roosevelt included the withdrawal of a segregation order in San (*) Francisco against members of the central ethnic group. For the point, name this informal agreement which resulted in a decrease in Japanese immigration to the U.S.---In a likely attempt at absolving himself if his plans failed, this man hid a petition in which he claimed he would offer his life up for a boy. This man established a fixed three percent loan rate and a system modelled after the (*) Zhou [[CHO]] dynasty’s well-field system. Flooding exacerbated tensions between this man's government and the peasantry, leading a faction called the Chìméi [[chee-MAY]] to oppose him. Attempting to implement (*) Confucianist policies, for the point, who was this leader of the short-lived Xin [[SHIN]] dynasty, who usurped power in the middle of the Han dynasty?---Roger Ailes supported the use of this six-word phrase, which contributed to a nine point poll swing before and after the New Orleans event where it was said. Peggy (+) Noonan wrote this phrase for a speech during the 1988 Republican National Convention. The breaking of this promise has been cited as the reason its speaker lost the (*) 1992 presidential election to Bill Clinton. For the point, name this statement in which George H. W. Bush promised not to create additional financial levies.---Bainbridge Island, an island within this body of water, was ceded by the local Squamish in the Point Elliot Treaty. A sudden name change in his captain's log led George (+) Vancouver to name a natural waterway in this larger body of water the "Hood Canal." Vancouver also named this estuary in honor of his Huguenot crewman who surveyed the area. Becoming part of the United States after the (*) Enabling Act of 1889, for the points, what is this portion of the Salish Sea on the coast of Washington?---A treaty named for this city signed between Henry the Fowler and Charles the Simple led to Charles's capture at the Battle of Soissons [[swah-SAWN]] and deposition by West Francian nobles. First inhabited by Latin settlers in the province of Germania (+) Inferior, this city was named after the local Eburoni tribe. Due to being from nearby Cologne, the first Chancellor Konrad Adenauer successfully advocated for this city to become the seat of (*) government in the 1940s. The capital of West Germany was, for the point, what city on the Rhine?---Ann Stuyvesant, Peter Stuyvesant's sister, was part of this family, as was Judith, Peter's wife. Margaret Smith, a woman born in this family, wrote The First Forty Years of Washington Society. William (+) Houstoun [[HOW-stun]] married a woman from this family, and in the 1800 presidential election, a "High Priest of the Constitution" from this family broke a deadlock by voting for Thomas Jefferson over Aaron Burr. If Richard Bassett is counted, this family provided six generations of (*) Delaware senators from 1789 to 1929. For the point, name this noted family of American lawyers and politicians, including James A.---During this conflict, the forces of Henri II Montmorency led a charge across a ditch at the Battle of Veillane [[vay-YAH-nuh]]. The fortress of Casale was besieged twice during this conflict, during which Pinerolo and other land taken by France was renounced in the Treaty of (+) Cherasco, affirming the rule of Charles, Duke of Nevers. This war was precipitated by the deaths of Francesco IV and two other brothers of the House of (*) Gonzaga. For the point, name this 1628 to 1631 proxy war during the Thirty Years' War fought over the throne of a duchy in Italy.---The Colt House Revolver is sometimes named after this man, who was killed by one. This man’s widow was sued for $200,000 by this man’s lover Josie Mansfield who fell in love with this man’s employee and eventual murderer, Edward Stokes. This man assisted (+) Daniel Drew during the war for control of the Erie Railway Company. This man was the alphabetically first of two men who partnered with a brother-in-law of President Grant in an 1869 (*) attempt to corner the gold market. For the point, name this corporate executive who partnered with Jay Gould in the Black Friday panic.---As marachel [[mah-rah-SHELL]] de camp, this man oversaw the construction of a ring of fortresses known as the "Iron Belt" across newly acquired territory in Flanders. This military thinker developed and implemented the (+) "siege parallel" system in the Spanish Netherlands during the Franco-Dutch War. This engineer developed the technique of "ricochet (*) fire," which meant firing artillery at a lower angle to cause the cannonfire to skip. For the point, name this French engineer under Louis XIV [[the fourteenth]] who perfected the star fort design in the late 17th century.---Lucien Basch believes that the first appearance of these items in the historical record was in a Hypogeum wall in Alexandria. The crab claw is sometimes falsely known as the “Oceanic” variety of these items, which often suffered from “bad (+) tack.” These items were employed extensively on feluccas and dhows of Arab seafarers. Popular during the Age of Discovery, these items had a lower aspect ratio than the (*) square rig. The fore-and-aft direction of these items greatly assisted ships travelling against the wind. For the point, name this historical triangular sail.---Bob Trout worked for this company, as did the author of The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, William Shirer. Fred Friendly helped this company produce See It Now, which led to Joseph (+) McCarthy's censure. A member of this company often began reports with "This is London" and ended it with "good night, and good luck to you all." Edward R. (*) Murrow worked for this company as an anchor. Walter Cronkite served as anchorman for the Evening News on, for the point, what American television network?---The Titan Orion married a woman thought to represent this foodstuff named Side [[SEED]]. Ascalaphus [[ah-SKALL-ah-fes]] was turned into an owl after reporting that four (+) parts of this food had been consumed by one figure. This food was thought to have originated from the blood of Aphrodite’s lover Adonis. The (*) winter months were mandated as a period in which a daughter of Demeter had to spend time with Hades after eating a portion of this food. For the point, name this fruit whose seeds were eaten by Persephone.---Robert Manion and Robert Weir organized a meeting with eight leaders of this event. Charles Miller was among the officials who died in a clash with participants in this event, who were often part of the Relief Camp (+) Workers' Union. Tear gas was used to put down a riot during this event led by "Slim" Evans. Occurring during the Great Depression, this event involved mass protests in cities across (*) Saskatchewan by unskilled laborers. For the point, name this event in which unemployed men boarded trains headed for the Canadian capital.---According to this book, a small group of escaped slaves traveled to the desert and murdered their leader, before worshipping a God of the Volcano. This book claims that the title person was a prominent follower of (+) Akhenaten's cult of Aten. This book claims that its title figure was a composite of an Egyptian nobleman and a Midianite priest, and this book contradicts (*) Exodus by arguing that its central figure was born into an Egyptian household and was never a slave. For the point, name this work of pseudo-history about the origins of Judaism by Sigmund Freud.---Official records claim this man committed suicide by jumping out a window of the hospital where he was detained. This man was dismissed from his role as Minister for the Army and (+) Navy by Prince Paul due to his opposition of a potential war against Germany. In 1939, after Nazi Germany occupied Serbia, this man was entrusted to lead the territory and “save the (*) core of the Serbian people.” For the point, name this man who served as Yugoslavia's Prime Minister of the Government of National Salvation throughout much of World War Two.---Two men of this surname were accompanied by Raleigh Rimmel on an expedition in which all three disappeared. That explorer, Percy, engaged in a failed attempt to find the Lost City of (+) Z in Brazil. Parliament Square’s first monument with a woman subject was of a suffragette with this surname who led the NUWSS. Allegations made by Emily Hobhouse inspired that woman of this surname to found a commission investigating conditions of concentration (*) camps holding Afrikaners. For the point, give this surname of the British suffragist Millicent.---This man donated $50,000 to the 1968 Memphis sanitation strike, which is thought to be its largest outside donation. Richard Nixon once said that he “can think of nothing so detrimental to this nation than for any (+) President to … be a captive of” this man, who was referred to as “the most dangerous man in” one city by George Romney. Leaflets were left along a Miller Road overpass as part of a campaign led by this man that involved fighting at the River (*) Rouge Complex in Michigan. For the point, name this Detroit-based union organizer and leader of the United Auto Workers.---The last king of this state, Polemon II, was forced to abdicate his throne after Nero did away with many client-kings in the 60s CE. With support from his son-in-law and sitting Armenian king Tigranes the Great, a king of this state invaded (+) Cappadocia and later committed the deadly Asiatic Vespers until his defeat at the hands of Sulla. United with Bithynia, a province with this name served as both an Imperial and Byzantine region until it was reorganized into three different themes in the 7th century CE. The (*) Mithridatic Wars concerned Rome's battles with, for the point, what state of northern Anatolia?---This kingdom's ruler Chikka Devaraja committed the Jangama massacre, killing over 400 priests by mass strangulation while at a feast. With help from his future usurper, a ruler of this kingdom named Krishnaraja (+) Wadiyar II earned his independence from Vijaynagar [[vee-JAY-nah-GAR]]. The Siege of Seringapatam ended a war between the UK and this kingdom, forcing (*) Tipu Sultan to cede half of his land to the British East India Company. For the point, name this Southern Indian realm once ruled by Haidar Ali, now named the Karnataka State.---This event’s occurrence was partly inspired by a suggestion made by Audrey Strange that David Baldwin reaffirmed. The finding of a map by Philippa Langley was key evidence that led to this event. Mitochondrial DNA from descendants of its central figure’s sister, Anne, were used during this event, whose central figure was found to have suffered scoliosis and a wound from a halberd. Occurring at what was previously Grey Friars Priory in 2012, this event involved the use of Leicester [[LES-ter]] Cathedral for a reinterring. For the point, name this finding of a Yorkist king.---This man proposed the abolition of Switzerland to the UN, likely due to the arrest of his son, Hannibal, in Geneva for the beating of a servant. In 1970, this man expelled both the Italians and the Jews in a day he dubbed "Vengeance (+) Day," taking control of their funds and businesses. This man was overthrown by the National Transitional Council after the Battle of (*) Sirte [[SURT]]. For the points, name this writer of [i]The Green Book[i], a Libyan dictator who was toppled during Arab Spring.---
Hakata Bay (accept Hakata-wan; accept Tsushima Strait until "Bun'ei")---Chimú Empire (accept Kingdom of Chimor; accept Chimú people or culture)---Roberto Ridolfi (accept Roberto di Ridolfo; accept Ridolfi Plot)---Montreux [[mohn-"TRUE"]] or [[mon-TROH]] (accept Montreaux Jazz Festival, Festival de Jazz Montreaux, or Festival International de Jazz Montreux) ---Henry Halleck (or Henry Wager Halleck)---Arusha (accept Arusha Accords; accept Arusha Declaration)---Eero Saarinen---Benedict Arnold's Expedition to Quebec City (accept Invasion of Quebec City or Trail to Quebec City; accept clear-knowledge equivalents; do not accept or prompt on "Battle of Quebec") ---Virgil Thomson---Brain Trust (accept Brains Trust)---David (or Davit; accept David III; accept David IV; or Davit Aghmashenebeli)---King Leopold’s Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa ---Stono Rebellion (accept Cato’s Conspiracy/Rebellion before mentioned)---Champa Kingdom (accept Chiem Thanh; accept Nagaracampa; accept Zhancheng)---Brennus (accept Brennos)---The Creole case (accept Slave Revolt aboard the Creole) ---Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907 (accept Nichibei Shinshi Kyōyaku)---Wang Mang [[WAHNG MAHNG]] (accept either underlined answer; accept Jujun)---"Read my lips: no new taxes" (do not accept or prompt on partial answers)---Salish [[SAY-lish]] Sea (accept Puget Sound before "Sea" is mentioned) ---Bonn (accept Bonna)---Bayard family (accept Bayards; accept Mary Bayard Houston; accept James A(sheton) Bayard)---War of the Mantuan Succession (prompt on "Thirty Years War" before mentioned)---James "Diamond Jim" Fisk, Jr. ---Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban (or the Marquis de Vauban)---Lateen sails (accept Lateen rig; accept Latin in place of Lateen; prompt on “sail”; prompt on “rig” before mentioned)---CBS (accept Eye Network; accept Columbia Broadcasting System)---Pomegranate ---On-to-Ottawa Trek (accept synonyms for "Trek" such as "Journey"; prompt on "Ottawa")---Moses and Monotheism (accept Der Mann Moses und die monotheistische Religion)---Milan Nedić [[NEH-deetch]]---Fawcett (accept Percy Harrison Fawcett; accept Dame Millicent Garrett Fawcett; accept Jack Fawcett; accept Fawcett Commission) ---Walter Reuther [[ROO-ther]] (or Walter Philip Reuther)---Kingdom of Pontus (or Basileía toû Póntou; accept Bithynia and Pontus)---Mysore Kingdom (accept Karnataka State before mentioned; accept Kingdom of Mysore; accept "Sultanate" in place of "Kingdom") ---Exhumation of Richard III (accept descriptive answers including answers using synonyms for exhumation)---Muammar Gaddafi (accept Muammar Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi; accept Colonel Gaddafi; accept Qaddafi in place of Gaddafi)---