Nats---True---137
In the 12th century, a man from this city named Margaritus became the ﬁrst count of Malta. Marcus Pacuvius was a 2nd century BC poet from this city, where Virgil died in 19 BC. After ﬂeeing from Caesar’s forces to this city, (+) Pompey took a ship to Epirus. Located in the region of Apulia, this city once contained two “terminal columns” that marked the (*) end of a route whose construction began during the Samnite Wars. The Greek for “Deer’s head” is the etymology of the name of, for the points, what Italian coastal city connected to Rome via the Appian Way?---These objects were allegedly discovered when a physician attempted to grind them into powder to cure malaria. These objects, which were used to record days of the “Stem and (+) Branches” system, were assigned into 5 diﬀerent periods by Dong Zuobin. These objects were analyzed by (*) “prognosticators” in areas where grooves were marked to symbolize questions, shortly after these objects were heated until they cracked. Turtle shells are an example of, for the points, what Shang dynasty era objects used for divination?---Some modiﬁed Corinthian capitals at this city are shaped like elephants and winged cats. A theater in this city includes statues of Heracles and Aphrodite. A building located above (+) al-Siq at this site has a facade that includes a broken pediment as well as depictions of Isis-Tyche, as well as Castor and Pollux; that building, a tomb for King (*) Aretas IV in this city, is more commonly known as the Treasury, or the Khazneh. For the points, name this Nabataean capital, a city carved out of rock in modern Jordan.---Members of this group are thought to be behind the killing of the undersheriﬀ Osman Steele. Handbills sent out by members of this group called for people to “Awake! Arouse!” A doctor and leading member of this group went by the name Big Thunder. (+) Smith Boughton, another leader of this group, was prosecuted by state attorney general John van Buren after these people rioted against the patroonship system that had allowed for the vastness of (*) Stephen Van Rensselaer III’s estate. Governor Silas Wright lost his re-election campaign in 1846 after calling the military against, for the points, what group in upstate New York in the 1840s that revolted against about the back collection of their tenant debts? Anti-Rent Party (accept Anti-Renters; accept Anti-Rent Movement; accept Anti-Rent---A Frenchman named Choqueux [sho-koh] was a suspect in this event until it was revealed that he made ﬁreworks for a living. In the midst of this event, a man was found dead at Primrose Hill with apparent stab wounds; (+) Miles Prance was accused of that murder of Sir Edmund Godfrey. William Bedloe served as a prosecutor in thiss event, whose planner was assisted by Israel Tongue and had attended a (*) Jesuit school in Omer. Roughly two dozen men were executed as a result of, for the points, what conspiracy theory, devised by Titus Oates, that claimed Charles II’s life was in grave Catholic danger?---In 1681, the people of this colony organized an unsuccessful “day of fasting and public prayer” after they thought that their leader had fallen ill due to a recent comet sighting; though John Cutt died, this state continued to observe Fast Day until 1991. Elizabeth Hanson, a resident of this colony, wrote a captivity narrative after being abducted during (+) Father Rale’s War. Samuel Allen was the ﬁrst governor of this colony, from which Benning Wentworth issued over one hundred land grants. The overlap between this colony’s grants and those issued by (*) New York ultimately led to the creation of Vermont. For the points, name this American colony with capital at Concord.---A 16-milimeter ﬁlm shot by Harold Warp captured this event; Warp never attended another baseball game in his life. PA announcer Pat Peiper and future Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens claimed this event did occur as reported. (+) Charlie Root was the pitcher during this event, whose central ﬁgure claimed to hit a ball “past the ﬂagpole.” Theories about this event, which came during Game 3 of the (*) 1932 World Series, claim that its perpetrator was instead gesturing at the Cubs’ dugout. For the points, name this event in which certain New York Yankee blasted his last World Series home run to center ﬁeld, shortly after legendarily pointing in that direction.---This position was controlled by the Main Political Directorate and was weakened by the Frunze Reforms of the 1920s. Holders of this position often clashed with the military over the idea of edinonachalie , or (+) uniﬁed command, as they both held authority over units; in practice, some military commanders adopted this position. The German OKW issued an order immediately before Operation (*) Barbarossa ordering the execution of holders of this position. Nikita Khrushchev held this position during the Siege of Stalingrad. For the points, give this term for political oﬃcers that suppressed dissent and ensured civilian control of the Soviet army. commissar (or zampolit or politruk)---The tutor William Henry Donald was sent to negotiate an end to this event, in which propaganda minister Shao Yuanchong was killed while climbing a fence. The Blue Shirts Society attempted to convince (+) He Yingqin to intervene militarily in this event, though it was eventually resolved by a delegation led by Zhou Enlai. Yang Hucheng was executed 13 years after his involvement in this event, which led to a (*) United Front between the Communists and the Kuomintang against Japan. For the points, name this December 1936 event in which Zhang Xueliang arrested and essentially kidnapped Chiang Kai-Shek.---This man used his elite musketeers, the Jazayerchi, to capture Sa’adat Khan during an ambush at Kanjpura in his most famous battle. This ruler came to power at the Moghan Plain, where government ofﬁcials appointed him king over (+) Abbas III, even though this man had earlier destroyed the Hotaki dynasty to restore Tahmasp II to the throne. This man was victorious at the Battle of (*) Karnal, after which he captured the Peacock Throne of the Mughal Empire. For the points, name this Afsharid Shah of Iran who took power from the Safavids and sacked Delhi in 1731.---This author wrote the lines “I thought: it’s impossible to love a loose woman / As if she were a bride” in a poem addressed one of many lovers that she acquired at The Stray Dog restaurant. This writer declared “gravestones are fragile / and granite is softer than wax” in a poem that calls her (+) Prince Charming a “prince of the mockers.” A poem by this woman was inspired by waiting for (*) seventeen months to visit her son in prison, and she suﬀered the execution of her ﬁrst husband and imprisonment of her third in a gulag. For the points, name this Russian author of “Poem without a Hero” and “Requiem.”---students who burned the American embassy in Islamabad to the ground. One side in this event ﬁrst had to gain a fatwa from the ulama Abdul Aziz bin Baz. According to Lawrence Wright, Christian Proteau’s GIGN forces (+) converted to Islam before they were allowed into action alongside Pakistani commandos in this event. This event was carried out by (*) Abdullah al Qahtani and his al-Ikhwan militia, who declared al Qahtani to be the Mahdi. For the points, name this 1979 event in which hundreds of insurgents took hostages at Islam’s holiest site in Mecca. siege of the Grand Mosque of Mecca (or siege of the Great Mosque of Mecca; accept---This man may have died from infection from the horsehair used in his car seats; this came after he was struck by grenade shrapnel, but was able to leave his vehicle and chase down his assailants with a (+) Luger. This man’s death, which prompted a devastatingly punitive raid on the village of Lidice [lih-dee-tzah], was the goal of Operation (*) Anthropoid, carried out by Jozef Gabcik and Jan Kubis; this “man with an iron heart” died a week after that attack in Prague. For the points, name this head of the SD, a Nazi intelligence group, who helped organize Kristallnacht and the Holocaust.---Description acceptable. In explaining why this action was being taken, its undertaker claimed that he had “no patience with stubborn insistence on private advantage.” This action was taken to prevent a “dangerous intrusion of free speech” in the form of amendments to the (+) Wagner Act. This action sought to protect the right to closed shops, even though its undertaker opposed the recent wave of strikes. This move against a so-called (*) “slave-labor bill” was easily overridden in June 1947. For the points, name this action, a political defeat for Harry Truman, who failed to stop Congress’ weakening of labor unions.---A campaign by this organization placed mailbox bombs in the Westmount neighborhood. A ﬂag used by this organization features a red star on a white background on the left side and solid dark blue on the right. The (+) South Shore Gang was a subgroup of this organization, members of which kidnapped James (*) Cross and Pierre Laporte in an action that prompted Pierre Trudeau to invoke the War Measures Act. For the points, name this Quebec nationalist group that instigated the October Crisis.---To allow for this construction project, Richard Nixon signed a nearly one billion dollar Native Claims Settlement Act. The Dalton Highway was built to facilitate this project, which includes underground heat vents to avoid ground (+) melting. This system funds a program created in a 1976 state constitutional amendment that disperses its revenues to citizens via the Permanent (*) Fund Dividend. One section of this system rests on sliders to withstand earthquakes in the Denali Fault, and it makes use of twelve pumping stations between Prudhoe Bay and Valdez. For the points, name this 800-mile petroleum transportation system that spans the largest U.S. state.---This man was targeted by the Plot of Gorunia, whose planners wished to establish closer relations with Mao Zedong. Though this man shared power early on with Anton Yugov, he usurped power from the (+) Agrarian National Union with a namesake constitution of 1971. This man, who lost support after he attempted to force all Turkish residents to (*) change their names, ordered the Committee for State Security to assassinate Georgi Markov with a ricin-tipped umbrella in London. Petar Mladenov replaced this man just two months before Communism fell in his capital, Soﬁa. For the points, name this Communist leader who ruled Bulgaria for nearly forty years.---An expedition led by this man dislodged natives from the Canyon de Chelly. This man led a group of vigilantes in pursuit of the kidnappers of Ann White, who was eventually killed by her captors as he closed in. This man, who got his start in the party of Jim (+) Bridger, guided John Fremont on his three expeditions to the west and was tasked by the government with forcing the Apache and the Navajo into reservations. This rebel against the (*) Mexicans in California led a New Mexican regiment during the Civil War. For the points, identify this legendary mountain man for whom the capital of Nevada is named.---In the early 1960’s, American Green Berets trained soldiers that formed this country’s Mano Blanca death squads. When a group of leftist peasants occupied the Spanish embassy in this country in 1980, the government intervened and (+) burned the building to the ground. The Victoria 82 campaign targeted revolutionaries in this country and was launched by Efrain (*) Rios Montt. Rigoberta Menchu is an activist for native peoples in, for the points, what Central American country where a four-decade long civil war ended with a 1996 peace agreement, signed in its namesake capital city?---Median Isn’t the Message,” an inspiration to many cancer patients. This scientist wrote a 1981 book about the history of intelligence, to which he later included a forward criticizing (+) The Bell Curve. This author of “The Mismeasure of Man” and “The Panda’s Thumb” worked with a (*) paleontologist from Columbia to developed a theory of evolution characterized by rapid changes followed by periods of stability. For the points, name this paleontologist who, along with Niles Eldredge, proposed the theory of punctuated equilibrium. Gould---This man initially worked with his brother Henry in a butcher’s shop before entering his most famous business. After the Empress of China left on her maiden voyage, this man expanded his business to Canton. This husband of (+) Sarah Todd funded an expedition that led to the discovery of South Pass and the establishment of a namesake fort along the (*) Columbia. Employees of his most famous company would meet at rendezvous and traveled extensively through the Great Plains. For the points, name this 19th century businessman who established the American Fur Company.---One of this composer’s operas, featuring a ballet where roller skates were used to depict ice skating, was based on the Anabaptist rebellion in Munster led by John of Leyden. Felix Mendelssohn and this composer were the (+) targets of Richard Wagner’s anti-Semitic tract “On Jewishness in Music.” The ﬁnal opera by this composer of Le proph`ete was a ﬁctionalized depiction of (*) Vasco da Gama. Valentine loves the Protestant Raoul in another opera by this composer that ends with the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. For the points, name this composer of “grand operas” such as L’Africaine and Les Huguenots.---A speech commemorating this event borrowed the quote “And I shall have some peace there, for peace comes dropping slow” from the grave of a poet who is buried nearby. Timothy Knatchbull and Paul Maxwell were killed in this event, which occurred the same day as the (+) Warrenpoint Ambush. Thomas McMahon was convicted for his role in this event, which had been attempted a year prior via (*) sniper and was carried out via a radio-controlled bomb in Donegal Bay. For the points, name this August 1979 event in which the last British Viceroy of India was killed by the IRA.---called the Old Man of Hoy. The St. Magnus Cathedral is found in the town of Kirkwell, which is the largest settlement on these islands. The Churchill Barriers are a set of causeways that connect these islands, which include (+) Burray and Mainland surrounding a body of water called the Scapa Flow, which is home to a naval base. The Pentland Firth separates these islands from the rest of (*) Great Britain, and they lie to the southwest of the more barren Shetland Islands. For the points, name this archipelago oﬀ the northeastern coast of Scotland. Orkney Islands---In a novel, people working on this project are painted by a watercolor artist nicknamed Rabbit and are treated by the doctor Dorrigo Evans. Colonel Saito is tasked with the construction of a portion of this project in a novel in which Colonel (+) Nicholson refuses to work on it because he is an oﬃcer. Labor conditions on this project are central to Richard Flanagan’s novel (*) Narrow Road to the Deep North and to a novel by Pierre Boulle. For the points, name this project that included The Bridge over the River Kwai and which brutally employed captured British POWs during World War II.---This state was targeted by Kaloyan, who managed to capture its ﬁrst ruler. It made peace with Theodore I Laskaris with the Treaty of Nymphaion. While waiting for Robert of Courtenay to become ruler, this state was ruled by the regent (+) Yolanda of Flanders. Baldwin IX was crowned the ﬁrst ruler of this state, which was destroyed by the Empire of (*) Nicaea, led by Michael VIII Palaiologos, thus restoring Byzantine rule. For the points, name this brief empire centered around Constantinople after the Fourth Crusade.---This thinker wrote that government structures are put at risk thanks to nature-altering biotechnology in Our Posthuman Future . In America at the Crossroads , this thinker discussed his support for the Bush administration. Huntington’s (+) Clash of Civilizations hypothesis responded to this thinker’s 1992 work, which noted that the spread of capitalism after the (*) Cold War helped shift societies to the ﬁnal form of government, liberal democracy. For the points, name this Japanese-American political scientist, the author of The End of History and the Last Man.---This man’s wife, Hannah Wilkinson, is thought to have been the ﬁrst American women granted a patent. As a youth, this man worked for Jedediah Strutt, who used a technology created by Richard (+) Arkwright. This man employed a village-like management strategy, known as the Rhode Island System, that relied heavily on the (*) labor of women and children and utilized many textile factory techniques that he cleverly memorized while working in England, which forbade their export. For the points, name this “Father of the American Industrial Revolution.”---To put down this effort, colonial forces established a screening and deportation camp at Langata, clearing out the entire native population from the capital. In the early stages of this effort, the assassination of Waruhiu allowed (+) Evelyn Baring to declare a State of Emergency, which included mass arrests in Operation Jock Scott. The arrested included (*) Bildad Kaggia and the other members of the Kapenguria Six, who were accused of drinking human blood in a ritual oath. This eﬀort essentially ended after Dedan Kimathi was captured and killed. For the points, name this 1950s-era, Kikuyu-led revolt against the British in Kenya.---After this man attacked Fairfax Court House, he sent a taunting telegraph to Montgomery Meigs regarding the inadequacy of the supplies stolen. This man clashed over possession of the Fleetwood Hill in a battle against (+) Alfred Pleasanton. This man was replaced by Fitzhugh Lee after he was slain by John Huﬀ at Yellow (*) Tavern. This man was criticized for ﬁghting in the Battle of Brandy Station, which led to his absence at Gettysburg. The “eyes and ears” of Robert E. Lee’s army was, for the points, what Confederate cavalry general?---A tyrant of this city named Aristagoras unsuccessfully tried to capture Naxos for the Persians, after which he led the Ionian revolt, resulting in this city’s destruction by the Persians. A woman from this city was said to have convinced (+) Athens to intervene on its behalf against Samos in the Samian War by lobbying Pericles; that hetaera had (*) Pericles’ child after his divorce. A 6th century BC philosopher from this city claimed that the nature of all things was water. For the points, name this city, home to Aspasia and Thales [thay-leez], an ancient Greek city in Anatolia.---This man’s four principles for knowledge dealt with the Gettier problem by making justiﬁcation not necessary for knowledge. This philosopher’s idea of the “separateness of persons” led him to advocate a (+) Kantian “kingdom of ends,” as well as a minimal police-state. This former President of the American Philosophical Association opposed John (*) Rawls’ liberalism in a work that defended libertarian theories of justice. For the points, name this longtime Harvard philosopher and author of Anarchy, State, and Utopia.---Francis Dufty worked a photographer in this country, whose ﬁrst British governor was Hercules Robinson. A period of prevalent cannibalism and violence in this country is referred to as “the time of the devil.” (+) Charles Savage was known for his exploits in this country, whose chiefs were given the title (*) Ratu. Frank Bainimarama led a military government in this country, whose major cities include Lambasa and Savusavu. Viti Levu is the largest island of, for the points, what island country in Oceania where George Konrote leads in Suva?---A general involved in this event ﬂed to Spain and commanded Spanish armies at the Battle of the Dunes against his friend and rival in this event, Marshal Turenne. That general, the Prince of Cond´e, helped (+) suppress the ﬁrst phase of this event, although he would later be arrested in its second phase. Noble members of the (*) parlements began this event by refusing to pay higher taxes during the Franco-Spanish War. The centralizing policies of Cardinal Mazarin were the target of, for the points, what uprising, named for slings to smash windows during the minority of Louis XIV? Fronde---This man argued that “there is a great [...] battle to be fought against ignorance,” but if people aren’t “determined” to use television to teach or inspire, it’s “nothing but wires and lights in a box.” When speaking with Joseph (+) McCarthy, this man declared “we must not confuse dissent with disloyalty;” that came during a 1954 report on a program this man co-created with (*) Fred Friendly. During the Blitz, he opened broadcasts with the phrase “This is London.” For the points, name this radio and television personality, the host of See it Now, who ended wartime reports with the phrase “Good night, and good luck.”---Description acceptable. This speech derides a woman who “believes that 12-year-olds should have the right to sue their parents” after glorifying a previous time when the “Gipper was at the helm.” This speech laments the promised (+) “unrestricted abortion on demand” that the Democratic ticket would provide and frames the upcoming election of (*) 1992 as part of an attempt to win “the soul of America.” For the points, name this speech about the clash between traditional and progressive ideals, given at the Republican Nomination Convention in 1992 by Pat Buchanan.---One year before this conﬂict, the king of the victorious side dreamed that a woman from the south carrying a sheaf of rice burned his palace down. Before dying in this conﬂict, a commander famously replied that “it is (+) easy to die but diﬃcult to open up the way.” Peasants of one side of this conﬂict fought as a “righteous army” to defend Jeolla Province. A naval victory at (*) Hansan Island, won by Admiral Yi Sun-sin’s turtle ships, turned the tide of this conﬂict. The death of Toyotomi Hideyoshi ended, for the points, what conﬂict at the end of the 16th century between Japan and the Joseon and Ming dynasties?---
Brindisi (accept Brundisium; accept Brinnisi)---oracle bones (or jiagu; prompt on partial answers, including descriptions like “divination tools” before mentioned)---Petra---War) Page 1 ---Popish Plot---Province of New Hampshire---George Herman “Babe” Ruth’s called shot (prompt on partial answers; accept Babe Ruth’s last World Series home run before mentioned; accept speciﬁcally correct answers as appropriate, using deny-and-protest-later mechanics if necessary)---Political Page 2 ---Xi’an Incident (prompt on descriptions of the kidnapping of Chiang Kai-Shek before mentioned)---Nader Shah (or Nader Qoli Beyg)---Anna Akhmatova When news of this event broke, Stephen Crowley and Bryan Ellis were killed by angry---equivalents for siege, like attack) Page 3 ---Reinhard Heydrich---Harry S. Truman’s veto of the Taft-Hartley Act (accept Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 in place of Taft-Hartley Act; prompt on partial answers)---FLQ (or Front de Liberation de Quebec; accept Quebec Liberation Front)---Trans-Alaska Pipeline System Page 4 ---Todor Zhivkov---Kit Carson (accept Carson City)---Guatemala After recovering from cancer, this scientist published an article in Discover titled “The---Stephen Jay Page 5 ---John Jacob Astor---Giacomo Meyerbeer---assassination (or murder, death, etc.) of Louis (Francis Albert Victor Nicholas) Mountbatten, First Earl Mountbatten of Burma (prompt on partial answers) Rock climbers visit this archipelago to climb a 450-foot-tall red sandstone sea stack---Page 6 ---Burma Railway (accept synonyms, like Burma Railroad; prompt on partial answers; prompt on Bridge Over the River Kwai before mentioned; do not accept or prompt on Burma Road)---Latin Empire (of Constantinople) (do not accept Latin League or other terms)---Francis Fukuyama---Samuel Slater---Mau Mau Rebellion (or Uprising, Revolt, etc.) Page 7 ---James Ewell Brown “Jeb” Stuart---Miletus---Robert Nozick---Republic of Fiji (accept Matanitu Tugalala o Viti before “Viti” is read)---Page 8 ---Edward R. Murrow (or Egbert R. “Ed” Murrow)---Pat Buchanan’s Culture War Speech (accept answers that use the phrase Culture War; accept descriptions of Pat Buchanan’s RNC speech before “Pat” is read; prompt on partial answers)---Imjin War (accept Imjin Wae-ran; accept descriptions of Japanese invasions of Korea of 1592-98 before “Japan” is read) Page 9---