A---False---14
A holder of this position, Philip Snowden, responded to the start of the Great Depression by investigating government cutbacks in the May Report. In 1911, the holder of this position attacked German aggression in the Mediterranean in a Mansion House Speech. David Lloyd George held this position for seven years beginning in 1908, during which time he issued the People’s Budget. For the point, name this position responsible for managing the British treasury.---A group of scientists in this country formed the VfR, a “Society for Space Travel,” after consulting on the ﬁlm The Woman in the Moon. The Farm Hill transcripts detail conversations between ten nuclear physicists from this country who were detained in England. This country’s Uranium Club included a man who stated an Uncertainty Principle. Werner Heisenberg was born in, for the point, what country in which Philip Lenard led the Aryan Physics movement?---At a battle fought oﬀ the shores of this country, Admiral Halsey aggressively maneuvered the U.S. Third Fleet north, earning that battle the nickname “Bull’s Run.” Masaharu Homma was executed for war crimes he committed in this country, where he forced a group of POWs to trek sixty miles to Camp O’Donnell. The Battle of Leyte Gulf was fought near this country, where Japanese forces carried out the Bataan Death March. For the point, name this Asian country to which Douglas MacArthur vowed to return.---A character in this novel steals a cross and a watch from a dead French oﬃcer who turns out to still be alive, and who mistakenly thanks the thief for saving his life. This novel’s lengthy digressions include an analysis of the Battle of Waterloo from the French perspective and an account of Paris’s sewer system, which is navigated when Marius Pontmercy is carried to safety from a barricade during the 1832 June Rebellion. For the point, name this novel about Inspector Javert [zha-vair] and Jean Valjean, written by Victor Hugo.---A ruler of this dynasty tried to legitimize his rule by forcing dissident ministers to recite poetry but failed to so and thus executed those “six martyred ministers.” This dynasty launched an expedition against the Tsushima Islands and established a “Hall of the Worthies” for scholars. Taejo founded this dynasty, which was aided in ﬁghting oﬀ a Japanese invasion by Yi Sun-Sin, after which it became isolationist and was known as a “hermit kingdom.” Sejong the Great once led, for the point, what Korean dynasty that ruled from the fall of Goryeo to the early 20th century? Joseon Dynasty (or Choson Dynasty)---This composer wrote his own libretto for an opera based on Ivan the Terrible’s secret police, The Oprichnik. In another of this man’s operas, Herman takes his own life after seeing the title object while gambling. The title character of another opera by this composer rejects Tatyana and kills Lensky in a duel. This composer of The Queen of Spades and Eugene Onegin used a celesta for the “Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy” in another work. For the point, name this Russian composer of The Nutcracker.---This politician declared that “if any demonstrator ever lays down in front of my car, it’ll be the last car he’ll ever lay down in front of” and described “work” and “soap” as the only four letter words that hippies didn’t know. This man became paralyzed from the waist down after he was shot by Arthur Bremer, which eﬀectively ended his bid against George McGovern in the 1972 Democratic primary. In 1963, this man declared his support for segregation “now,” “tomorrow,” and “forever.” For the point, name this Alabama governor who carried out the “Stand in the Schoolhouse Door.”---During a succession crisis in this empire, Boleslaw the Brave broke his sword while smashing it on a golden gate; that succession crisis is recounted in the monk Nestor’s Primary Chronicle. Sviatopolk the Accursed was defeated at the Alta River by this empire’s greatest ruler, Yaroslav the Wise. This empire’s most famous ruler married Basil II’s sister, Anna Porphyrogeneta, and converted his subjects to Orthodox Christianity. Vladimir the Great ruled, for the point, what proto-Russian state whose capital was in modern Ukraine?---This man allegedly used the foul smell of his camels to scare oﬀ enemy horses at the Battle of Thymbra. This king of Anshan consolidated power by defeating Nabonidus, which was recorded on a namesake cylinder that highlighted this man’s rule. This ruler’s achievements include ending the Babylonian Captivity, allowing Jews to return to their homelands, and creating a new capital at Pasargadae [pass-AR-guh-dye]. For the point, name this founder of the Achaemenid dynasty in Persia.---Joseph Galloway presented a Plan of Union to this body that was ﬁrmly rejected. This body, which endorsed the Suﬀolk Resolves as a move of solidarity, was presided over by Henry Middleton after the departure of its original president, Peyton Randolph. In its Declaration and Resolves, this body requested that Committees of Safety boycott British trade. The Intolerable Acts were the impetus for, for the point, what 1774 meeting between delegates of the Thirteen Colonies that failed to stave oﬀ the Revolutionary War? First Continental Congress (prompt on partial answers)---This group orchestrated the murder of the university student Benno Ohnesorg in an attempt to sow chaos in an enemy country. This organization quietly provided technical and ﬁnancial support to the Red Army Faction, and perfected its own gaslighting technique called zersetzung. Prominent members of this organization included longtime leader Erich Mielke and a man who successfully led the inﬁltration of Willy Brandt’s cabinet, Markus Wolf. For the point, name this oﬃcial intelligence service of East Germany.---In 2010, while working at this university, Reinhard and Rogoﬀ wrote the austerity-promoting paper “Growth in a Time of Debt.” A seminar co-taught by Michael Walzer and Robert Nozick at this university was titled “Capitalism and Socialism” and resulted in the publication of Anarchy, State, and Utopia. This university’s popular “Justice” course is taught by Michael Sandel and discusses one of this school’s longest serving philosophy professors, John Rawls. For the point, name this Ivy League university once headed by Lawrence Summers, located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.---A chronicle that describes this battle was composed 22 years later by Isidore of Beja. In the leadup to this battle, Odo’s forces were soundly defeated near Bordeaux in the Battle of the River Garonne. In this battle, Abdul Rahman was killed during the losing side’s retreat, in which they were pursued by Frankish infantry. For the point, name this 8th century battle in which Charles Martel’s army defeated an Umayyad invasion of France.---This man was supported by William Wade Dudley, who controversially suggested bribing voters in “blocks of ﬁve.” The Dependent and Disability Pension act was championed by this Ohio Congressman, who later signed it into law. Near the end of his administration, this man’s plan to annex Hawaii was blocked by the Senate. The Billion Dollar Congress supported this President and passed the harsh McKinley tariﬀ. For the point, name this president who both succeeded and preceded Grover Cleveland.---According to legend, the four sons of Aymon ﬂed to this region on the magical river-jumping horse Bayard. Charlemagne is said to have dreamed of this region the night before the disaster at Roncevaux Pass. The Dinant region in this forest was targeted by Heinz Guderian at the end of the Phony War, since it was undefended by the Maginot Line. This forest was also exploited by panzers in the Battle of the Bulge. For the point, name this largely Belgian forest that provided a route for the Nazi invasion of France. Ardennes Forest (prompt on Belgium and/or Wallonia before “forest” is said)---Malcolm Caldwell was murdered hours after meeting with this man. Nate Thayer, one of the few foreign journalists to interview this man, theorized that he killed himself to avoid being handed over to America. In 1985, this man selected a successor: Son Sen, who had earlier overseen S-21. Nuon Chea, who brieﬂy interrupted this man’s term as Prime Minister, was this man’s second-in-command and known as “Brother Number Two.” For the point, name this ﬁrst prime minister of Democratic Kampuchea, the leader of the Khmer Rouge.---A spy working for this country gained information about American troops by romancing US Senator Henry Wilson. This country utilized the spies Rose Greenhow and Belle Boyd. Because this country’s only major arms manufacturer was the Tredegar Iron Works, it employed blockade runners to bypass ships enforcing the Anaconda Plan. For the point, name this country whose Secretary of State, Judah Benjamin, managed its covert operations from its capital of Richmond, Virginia.---A popular portrait of this man in a blue robe and light blue tights was painted by Hyacinthe Rigaud [ree-GOH]. Andre-Charles Boulle’s inlay work was prized by this king’s court. This king commissioned the muralist Charles Le Brun to paint scenes of embassies to his court on the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors. This man commissioned the architect Louis Le Vau to oversee the expansion of the gardens and Palace of Versailles. For the point, name this Bourbon “Sun King.”---This politician successfully ordered Sir John Napier to rescue Protestant hostages taken by Tewodros II of Ethiopia. Under his tenure, this man’s country suﬀered a severe defeat in the Battle of Isandlwana by Zulu warriors. This man represented his country with Lord Salisbury at the Congress of Berlin, and he won acclaim for purchasing majority shares in the Suez Canal for his nation. Queen Victoria was a fervent supporter of, for the point, what British prime minister, a rival of William Gladstone?---The ﬁrst plague epidemic in the U.S. began in this city in 1900. A resident of this city named Joshua Norton issued his own money and declared himself Emperor of the United States. Daniel Burnham proposed a Haussmann-style reconstruction of this city, where Levi Strauss founded his jeans company following the 1849 California Gold Rush. Alcatraz Prison lies in a bay north of, for the point, what California city that was struck by a 1906 earthquake and ﬁre? San Francisco---During one of these events, Richard Temple opened work camps and was criticized for “teaching the natives that it is the duty of the government to keep them alive.” Another of these events that took place in India in the late 18th century was nicknamed for the skulls of its victims. One of these events, known locally as An Gortha Mor, was caused in part by overreliance on the Lumper variety of a certain crop. For the point, name these events, one of which caused thousands of refugees to ﬂee Ireland in the 1840s and was caused by a potato-killing blight.---This event ended shortly after a letter declared “the more the two of us pull, the tighter that knot [of war] will be tied.” An earlier diplomatic eﬀort to mediate this event involved Adlai Stevenson demanding, “don’t wait for the translation, answer yes or no!” while questioning an ambassador about photographs taken from a U2 plane. The agreement ending this event included the removal of Jupiter missiles in Turkey and the creation of a Moscow-DC hotline. For the point, name this 1962 event in which the Soviets attempted to weaponize a Caribbean island.---Prior to its foundation, the residents of this city journeyed from the Place of Herons to Grasshopper Hill, where they got in trouble for ﬂaying a princess of the Culhua people. This city’s sacred precinct was centered around a double temple to deities of war and rain, the Templo Mayor. This city was founded in a marsh at the spot where an eagle atop a cactus was eating a snake, supposedly a sign sent by Huitzilopotchli [h’weet-zee-loh-pock-t’lee]. For the point, name this Aztec capital city.---This state was the only one of the original thirteen states not to restrict voting by race or gender until 1807, when it restricted the vote to white, property-owning men. The legend of Molly Pitcher originated from a battle in this state, which names the William Paterson-proposed small state plan for the legislature at the Constitutional Convention. Johann Rall was killed after George Washington crossed the Delaware River into, for the point, what state where the Battle of Trenton was fought?---After this city’s forces lost the Battle of Arginusae, the winning city sentenced six of their eight winning generals to death. The Mothax Lysander was a famous admiral from this city, which lost power after losing the Battle of Leuctra to an echelon formation ﬁelded by Thebes. Xerxes’ advance was slowed by King Leonidas and a group of 300 soldiers from this city at the Battle of Thermopylae. For the point, name this militaristic Greek city state that was the main enemy of Athens in the Peloponnesian War.---Carl Batecchi wrote about his experiences as one of these people in a Dustoﬀ helicopter unit during the Vietnam War. After his experiences in Biafra, one of these people named Bernard Kouchner founded an international group of them that won the 1999 Nobel Peace Prize. Fictional examples of these people named BJ Hunnicut and Hawkeye Pierce worked in the 4077th during the Korean War in the T.V. show M*A*S*H. For the point, name these professionals who work “without Borders” in warzones to heal the wounded.---This country arrested Peng Ming-min, who spent four years under house arrest before ﬂeeing to Sweden. A leader of this country once declared “the sky is not big enough for two suns.” This country was the site of the February 28 incident, which resulted in 40 years of martial law called the White Terror. In 1996, this country held its ﬁrst direct presidential election, resulting in a Kuomintang victory. Chiang Kai-Shek ﬂed to, for the point, what island, home to the Republic of China?---The deliverer of this speech was praised as a “a high-ﬂying jet star” by political commentator Chris Matthews for his ﬂashy jet landing. This speech, given aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln, announced that “our allies [had] prevailed” and that “major combat operations” had ended. This speech earned its name from a phrase emblazoned across a red, white, and blue banner in the background. For the point, name this widely mocked speech, given by George W. Bush, that prematurely declared success in the Iraq War in 2003.---Participants in these events would make oﬀerings to the minor deity Taraxippus. The quadriga was often used in these events, one of which instigated a civil disturbance between factions nicknamed the Blues and the Greens. The Nika Riots were spurred by controversy surrounding these events, which were held in Constantinople’s Hippodrome. The Circus Maximus in Rome hosted, for the point, what events in which ancient competitors completed laps in horse-drawn vehicles?---This city’s artiﬁcial Northerly Island was created as part of a namesake “Plan” for this city developed by Daniel Burnham. A series of canal locks developed in this city during the late 19th century reversed the ﬂow of its namesake river. Four red stars are located between two light blue horizontal bars on this American city’s ﬂag. This county seat of Cook County contains the “L” rapid transit system and Navy Pier. For the point, name this most populous city in Illinois. Chicago---The rooster was sacred to this empire’s founder because he used an arrow with the point of a cock’s spur to slay his archrival at the Battle of Kirina. This empire was founded by Sundiata and its lands were later ruled by the Songhai Empire. A man whose extravagant hajj devalued gold throughout North Africa ruled this empire in the 14th century. For the point, name this empire, once led by Mansa Musa, which shares its name with a modern west African country.---
Chancellor of the Exchequer (accept Exchequer; accept Chancellor (and Under-Treasurer) of Her Majesty’s Exchequer; do not accept or prompt on Lord Chancellor)---Nazi Germany---the Philippines---Les Mis´erables (do not accept or prompt on “Les Miz”)---Page 1 ---Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky---George Wallace---Kievan Rus’ (prompt on Kiev)---Cyrus the Great (or Cyrus II)---Page 2 ---Stasi (accept Ministry for State Security or State Security Service)---Harvard University---Battle of Tours (accept Battle of Poitiers; accept Battle of the Palace of the Martyrs)---Benjamin Harrison (prompt on Harrison)---Page 3 ---Pol Pot (accept Saloth Sar)---Confederate States of America (accept CSA; accept Confederacy)---Louis XIV [14]---Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconﬁeld---Page 4 ---famines (accept Bengal famine; accept Doji bara famine or skull famine; accept Irish potato famine)---Cuban Missile Crisis---Tenochtitlan ([ten-oak-tee-t’lan], but be lenient)---New Jersey---Sparta Page 5 ---doctors (accept surgeons, nurses, medics, and anything else related to medicine, especially in war)---Taiwan (accept Republic of China before it is read; do not accept or prompt on People’s Republic of China; do not accept or prompt on China)---Mission Accomplished speech (prompt on descriptive answers related to George W. Bush declaring victory in the Iraq War in 2003)---chariot races (prompt on partial answers)---Page 6 ---Mali Empire Page 7---