Nats---True---140
A group that advocates this ideology laid out its founding philosophy in the Eight Historic Documents. A proponent of this political ideology, N.E. Balaram, worked to establish its principles in the state of (+) Kerala. A contemporary proponent of this ideology uses the alias Ganapathy. Advocates of this ideology were targeted by the Indian government in Operation (*) Steeplechase and Operation Green Hunt; those people are the Naxalites. For the points, name this ideology supported by Indian Marxists and Maoists.---This man blazed an overland route to the Montana gold ﬁelds that became known as his “Immigrant Road.” This man was one of several who went to work for William Henry Ashley, who sold his company to (+) Jedidiah Smith, who sold it to this man. While at this man’s namesake fort, the Donner Party was assured of the safety of the shortcut that led to their demise. As a youth, this man and John Fitzgerald controversially abandoned (*) Hugh Glass after Glass had been attacked by a bear. The Rocky Mountain Fur Company was established by, for the points, what legendary fur trapper and mountain man?---An oft-photographed rock formation in Port Campbell National Park in Victoria has this name, which was also given to an IRA hit squad that targeted members of the “Cairo Gang” in the 1920s. The crippled Brazilian sculptor (+) Aleijadinho is best known for soapstone carvings of this group of people. One member of this group of people legendarily made water droplets hang in the air while establishing a (*) religious community in India, while another is honored by a pilgrimage to the city of Santiago de Compostela. For ten points, name this group of people who include St. Thomas, St. James the Greater, and Saints Peter and Paul.---This man linked emotions, chance, and politics in a “remarkable trinity” of motives. This man claimed that an attacking army could operate until it reached the (+) culminating point, when it would give up and leave the defending army to triumph. This man noted that three quarters of combat operations were conducted under uncertain conditions. The experience of serving in the losing army at the Battle of (*) Jena-Auerstedt inﬂuenced, for the points, what Prussian military theorist who coined the term “fog of war” and wrote On War ? Clausewitz---The monk Theophilus wrote a 12th century treatise on using glass in this medium, which was used to depict the De¨esis in the Hagia Sophia and to cover sculptures of reptiles designed by (+) Gaudi for the Park Guell. Types of this technique like opus vermiculatum and opus quadratum diﬀer based on the tesserae [tess-er-ay] used to make them. A work in this medium found on the (*) ﬂoor of the House of the Faun in Pompeii shows Alexander ﬁghting on horseback. For the points, name this technique of creating designs or pictures from small pieces of stone or glass.---This man traveled with Levi Pettibone on a three month journey through the Ozarks. This man negotiated the acquisition of over a third of the territory of present-day Michigan via an 1836 Treaty of Washington. As a geologist on the Lewis Cass Expedition, this man (+) coined the name of the headwaters of the Mississippi, Lake Itasca. This man’s marriage to a half-Ojibwe woman contributed to his understanding of Native American traditions that inspired (*) Henry Wadsworth Longfellow’s poem Hiawatha. For the points, name this surveyor who wrote Indian Tribes of the United States.---In this city, the White Two-Headed Eagle acted as a nationalist front. Members of the Union of the Archangel Michael who were associated with the Black Hundreds shut down this city’s local Prosvita society. (+) Bogdanovka was a concentration camp created during a massacre in this city carried out by the Romanian government in 1941. A scene with a baby (*) stroller rolling down a set of steps of this city can be found in the ﬁlm Battleship Potemkin, which depicts a 1905 pogrom in, for the points, what Black Sea port city in modern-day Ukraine?---A ruler of these people named Laoshang made a cup out of a Yuezhi king’s skull while conquering Gansu. Dou Xian ended the northern kingdom of these people at the Battle of the Altai Mountains. These people, who ruled the Xia state during the (+) 16 Kingdoms period, began warring with the Han Dynasty after Emperor Wu failed to trap them at the Battle of Mayi. After these people won the (*) Battle of Baideng Emperor Gaozu of Han initiated the heqin system of diplomatic marriage. For the points, name these nomadic people, primarily from Mongolia, whose empire was founded by Modu Chanyu.---During this war, one commander led an ambush, then told the surviving soldiers, “we’ve killed enough of you, now go home.” Thomas Kelley led a successful charge in this war at the Battle of Dry Lake. Eadweard Muybridge was commissioned by the Army to photograph this war, whose ﬁrst shot was ﬁred by (+) Scarface Charley at the Battle of Lost River. Reverend Eleazer Thomas and General Edward Canby were killed in this war, which included ﬁghting at a fortiﬁed location called (*) Captain Jack’s stronghold. Four men who incited this war were hanged at Fort Klamath. For the points, name this war fought in lava beds near Tule Lake against a Native American tribe in Northern California and Southern Oregon.---One of these pieces by Philip Glass uses a ﬂute to depict the title Native American girl in its middle “Sacajawea” movement and is subtitled “After Lewis and Clark.” The ﬁnal seventeen measures of the third piece in this genre by Bela Bartok were orchestrated by his student Tibor Serly. The Allegro ma non tanto ﬁrst movement of Sergei Rachmaninoﬀ’s (+) third piece of this type features two alternate cadenza. Paul Wittgenstein, who lost his right arm in World War I, commissioned a one-movement example of this piece (*) “for the left hand” from Maurice Ravel. For the points, name this type of musical composition that features the orchestra supporting a keyboard soloist.---William Bafﬁn died on an expedition this ruler ordered, which led to a threat by the Duke of Buckingham to sue the English East India Company. This ruler built a new capital and resettled Armenian people there to stimulate the silk trade. In 1620, war between this ruler and (+) Jahangir occurred over the city of Kandahar. The Shirley brothers helped reform the army of this shah, who reduced the power of the Qizilbash. In a 1603 war against the (*) Ottoman Empire, this Persian ruler regained land lost by Tahmasp I in the Treaty of Amasya. This ruler moved his capital from Qazvin to Isfahan. For the points, name this great ruler of Safavid Persia.---Alessandro Cagliostro was arrested for being a Freemason in connection with this event. The prostitute Nicole Leguay d’Oliva impersonated the target of this event, who had previously rejected Boehmer and Bassenge. This event’s main conspirator was (+) whipped and branded a thief after she asked R´eteaux de Villete to forge correspondence. Pope Pius VI wanted to personally try the (*) Cardinal of Rohan for his role in this event, in which he was persuaded to purchase the central object. Marie Antoinette was undeservedly blamed for, for the points, what scandal regarding a piece of jewelry? Diamond Necklace---A man in this family was chosen to buy land for the Massachusetts State House and used that post to buy land from John Singleton Copley and develop it as Beacon Hill. Tax collector (+) John Robinson beat a man from this family in the head causing mental illness, and another member of this family used the pseudonym “A Columbian Parrot” and married James Warren. A Massachusetts politician from this family used the phrase, (*) “taxation without representation.” For the points, name this Boston Brahmin family whose patriot sympathizers included brother and sister James Jr. and Mercy.---One ruler of this dynasty hired Roger de Flor to lead a band of Iberian mercenaries known as the Catalan Company. The Hesychast Controversy between Gregory Palamas and Barlaam of Calabria occurred during the rule of this dynasty. The reign of this dynasty was interrupted by the house of Kantakouzenos after the death of Andronikos III. The founder of this dynasty settled the (+) East-West Schism at the Second Council of Lyons and constantly feuded with Charles of Anjou over Sicily. The ﬁnal ruler of this dynasty (*) died in a futile charge against Mehmet II’s forces during the Battle of Constantinople. For the points, name this last Byzantine dynasty, rulers of which included Constantine XI and Michael VIII.---A resistance unit founded by these people was once known as King Peacock, in reference to the Peacock Angel. Three hundred of these people were said to have been killed on a single day in Tal Afar. The magazine (+) Dabiq contains articles justifying the enslavement of these people, who were targeted in Nineveh Province in the (*) Sinjar Massacre. John Kerry claimed that the attacks in Northern Iraq against these people constituted genocide. ISIS has systematically targeted, for the points, what completely endogamous, Kurdish-speaking ethnic group of northern Iraq?---to a monkey and ﬁrst appeared in the novel This Earth of Mankind . The Cultivation System policy forced farmers in this country to grow sugar and coffee instead of rice, as detailed in (+) Multatuli’s novel Max Havelaar. As part of the New Order, this country’s author Pramoedya Ananta Toer was sent to a prison camp on (*) Buru Island. For the points, name this former Dutch colony where many intellectuals were suppressed when Suharto came to power. Indonesia---A message from leaders in this place was smuggled by Jan Karski to Szmul Zygelbojm [ZHEE-gul-boim], who promptly committed suicide. A bridge over Chlodna [HWOD-na] Street connected two sections of this place. This place was led by Adam Czerniakow, who also committed suicide. (+) Deportations from this place were carried out from the Umschlagplatz. A collection of photographs about an event led by Mordechai Anielewicz in this place is named after the (*) SS oﬃcer who put down that event, Jurgen Stroop. For the points, name this place, where Jews were forced to live until an 1943 uprising in the Polish capital.---Richard Nixon “passed over 240 generals” to conﬁrm this man as Lieutenant General. This man, who was almost killed by a land mine planted by Red Army Faction member Rolf Clemens Wagner, had his namesake “speak” described as “language characterized by pompous obscurity.” H.R. Haldeman was replaced by this man as (+) White House Chief of Staﬀ following the Watergate Scandal. This man noted “Constitutionally, gentlemen, you have the president, the vice president, and the (*) secretary of state in that order” while waiting for Vice President George H.W. Bush to arrive at the White House in 1981. For the points, name this man who proclaimed, “I am in control here” after the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan.---During this battle, an army of Karluk mercenaries representing over half of the defending force defected, allowing them, albeit temporarily, to reafﬁrm their power in Western Turkestan. The Tibetan Empire capitalized on this defeat for Gao Xianzhi by conquering portions of India. In the aftermath of this battle, the invading side seized control of (+) Transoxiana giving it access to the Silk Road. According to legend, prisoners taken at this battle were ordered to create paper in (*) Samarkand, thus introducing the concept to the Muslim world. For the points, name this 751 battle between the Abbasid Caliphate and Tang Dynasty, named for a Kyrgyzstan river.---Description acceptable. Glen McLaughlin collected a set of over 250 maps that depicted this misconception, which was at one point disproven by Eusebio Kino. The origin of this misconception is thought to be the book Las sergas de Esplandi´an , which describes this place as home to a race of black Amazonian women. Despite Mercator’s creation of maps that (+) didn’t fall prey to this myth, and despite Francisco de Ulloa’s expedition that found that Tiburon and the Colorado River were part of the same landmass, proponents of this theory claimed that the supposed Strait of Anian connected to the Sea of (*) Cortez. Well into the 18th century, some geographers subscribed to, for the points, what false theory that a Mexican peninsula was not connected to the mainland? California is an island (accept answers relating to the Island of---A ruler of this region named Svatopluk I sent John of Venice to meet Pope John VIII over the language used for liturgy. After Louis the German placed Rastislav in control of a “great” empire named for this region, invitations for “teachers” from Constantinople were sent out, leading Saints Cyril and Methodius to come and create the (+) Glagolitic Script. Ruling from an adjacent region with capital at Prague, the Premyslid Dynasty annexed this region under Boleslaus I. Capitals of this region included Olomouc and Brno, and this region was once merged with its part of its northern neighbor, (*) Silesia. Forming part of a Nazi Protectorate, for the points, name this region of the Czech Republic that was often historically paired with Bohemia.---This member of the Choshu Five smuggled himself to England to attend University College London, but returned home early with Inoue Masaru to stop the Shimonoseki Campaign. In response to the formation of the Kenseito, this politician organized the pro-government (+) Rikken Seiyukai party. An Jung-geun assassinated this leader in retaliation for forcing the abdication of Korea’s Emperor Gojong. This politician drew on the (*) Reichstag to draft a document that legitimized imperial authority with the concept of kokutai. For the points, name this statesman who crafted the Meiji Constitution and served as Japan’s ﬁrst Prime Minister.---Baker v. Morton arose over violence from a claim club named for this city. Joseph Sheely operated a meat packing plant in this city, leading to growth in Sheelytown and the subsequent nicknaming of this city as “Magic City.” After Edward Lowry arrested an immigrant in this city in 1909, the (+) Greek Town riots began. A 1919 race riot in this city led to the attempted hanging of Mayor Edward Smith and the lynching of Will Brown. During the 1950’s, Chicago’s Union (*) stockyards were surpassed as the world’s largest stockyards by this city. For the points, name this home base of Union Paciﬁc and Berkshire Hathaway that, in 1867, lost its status as state capital to Lincoln, Nebraska.---This man published an inﬂuential study of Western orchestra in his 1844 Treatise on Instrumentation . This composer set the Vehmic trials of Medieval Germany to his unﬁnished opera The Free Judges , which he recycled into the second movement of his (+) Grand Funeral and Triumphal Symphony. This man adapted Virgil’s Aeneid into his opera Les Troyens. He included a rendition of the Rakoczy March in his “dramatic legend” entitled (*) The Damnation of Faust. This composer of Harold in Italy included a “March to the Scaﬀold” in another work. For the points, name this French Romantic composer best known for Symphonie Fantastique. Berlioz---The native religion of this ethnic group draws heavily from the Nart Sagas and is symbolized by a hammer cross resembling a T. Irish women with Afro hairstyles pretended they were members of this ethnic group in a P.T. Barnum exhibited that played on the trope of this ethnic group’s namesake “beauties.” The 2014 Sochi Olympics controversially built facilities over the (+) mass graves of this ethnic group, whose diaspora is primarily found in Turkey. A green ﬂag with 12 stars and three arrows is used by, for the points, what primarily (*) Muslim ethnic group that was expelled from the northern Caucasus by the Russians in the 19th century?---One form of this practice was upheld as constitutional in Zorach v. Clauson because it merely accommodated schedules; that case did not extend a precedent set when Vashti McCollum challenged Champaign, Illinois’ use of “released (+) time” in 1948. A Kentucky statute calling for this practice in the form of posters was found to be unconstitutional in the 1980 case Stone v. Graham, which applied the (*) Lemon test. For the points, name this educational activity that, to be legal in public schools, must not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.---Skunkha ruled over a subgroup of these people named for the fact that they wore pointed caps. In the fourth book of his Histories , Herodotus describes these people as having “lived in tent-covered wagons.” A sculpture showing two of these people shooting arrows was found in present day (+) Kerch. In Krasnodai Krai, golden throne remains were found in a characteristic tomb of these people known as a (*) kurgan. Persian sources often refer to these people as the Saka. For the points, name these nomads of Iranian descent who lived along the Eurasian steppe.---This man was assassinated after he supported Ignacio Bonillas for president. The “Renewal Faction” attended a Constitutional Convention that this man called, which created Article 123 establishing an 8 hour work day. This man, whose name inspired a new verb meaning (+) “to steal,” called the Big Four to meet at the Convention of [ah-gwa-scall-ee-en-tays]. This man, who crafted the Plan of Guadelupe, was Aguascalientes the “Primer Jefe” of the Constitutionalists. The (*) Zimmerman Telegram reached this man’s government, whose forces defeated Pancho Villa at the Battle of Celaya. Av´aro Obreg´on betrayed, for the points, what President of Mexico who defeated Victoriano Huerta?---This leader, who promoted the creation of khutors to empower agricultural peasants, ignored the Vyborg Manifesto on Finnish independence. This ﬁgure tried to implement the reforms of Sergei Witte but was opposed by the Kadets party. This man (+) dissolved the Second Duma for being too liberal and set up anti-rebellion courts that used nooses nicknamed his “neckties.” This man was (*) assassinated while watching The Tale of Tsar Saltan in Kiev. For the points, name this Prime Minister under Nicholas II who attempted to make reforms after the Revolution of 1905.---This man criticized the Imperial Army’s decision to execute prisoners at Suzhou, claiming that if the “faith had been kept” there would have been no more ﬁghting. While aboard the Hyson , this ofﬁcer ordered his men to cut up stakes placed by rebel forces in order to ﬂank a ﬂeet of pursuing (+) junks. A popular account of this man’s death tells of how he stared down the Ansar wielding only a rattan cane. This man ultimately took control of a ﬁghting force after its original founder, (*) Frederick War, died at the Battle of Cixi [see-shee]. The “Ever Victorious Army” was commanded by, for the points, what British oﬃcer who gained his most famous nickname while putting down the Taiping Rebellion? Gordon---The world’s oldest social housing complex still in use is named for a man from this family; its rent has always been 1 Rheinischer Gulden [rine-ish-er gulden] per year. Jan´os Thurz´o and a man from this family led the “Common Hungarian Trade.” This family, whose branches include one “of the (+) Deer” and one “of the Lily,” was issued many indulgences after it supported Albert of Brandenburg, earning the ire of Martin Luther. The majority of (*) bribery money to elect Charles V as Holy Roman Emperor came from this family, which took control of Tyrolean silver and copper mines. Jakob the Rich was the scion of, for the points, what German banking family based in Augsburg?---In the ﬁnal speech from a book by this man, a scholar recommends ascending the “ladder of love” from physical beauty to divine beauty. This man was the Papal ambassador to the Spanish court of Charles V during the (+) Sack of Rome. This man developed a concept by which a person develops the art of natural concealment, which he called sprezzatura. This diplomat worked at the (*) court of Elisabeth Gonzaga and Emilia Pia in Urbino. For the points, name this Italian humanist who wrote The Book of the Courtier. Castiglione---This man negotiated the Treaty of Badajoz during a war named for the oranges he picked and sent to his alleged lover, Queen Maria Luisa of Parma. This man, who had his country agree to declare war on Great Britain with the Second Treaty of (+) San Ildefonso, was granted the “Principality of the Algarves” after he negotiated a proposed partition of Portugal with Napoleon in the Treaty of Fontainebleau. This non-king was the target of the unsuccessful (*) El Escorial Conspiracy by a king who ﬁred him during the Mutiny of Aranjuez, Ferdinand VII. For the points, name this Prime Minister of Spain under Charles IV.---
Communism (accept Naxalites before read; prompt on Maoism or Marxism before read)---Jim Bridger---the 12 Apostles (prompt on “The Squad” after “IRA” is read)---Carl von Page 1 ---mosaics---Henry Rowe Schoolcraft---Odessa---Xiongnu Page 2 ---Modoc War (accept Lava Beds War before mentioned)---piano concerto (prompt on concerto)---Shah Abbas I (or Shah Abbas the Great of Persia)---Aﬀair of the Page 3 ---Otis family---Palaiologos Dynasty---Yazidis (or Yezidis; prompt on Kurds before mentioned) A character who lives in this country is nicknamed “Minke” because of his resemblance---Page 4 ---Warsaw Ghetto---Alexander Meigs “Al” Haig Jr.---Battle of Talas River (accept Battle of Artlakh; accept da luosi zhanyi; accept maerakat nahr tlas)---the idea that (Baja) (Baja) California; accept descriptive answers related to the Spanish belief that Baja California was not part of the mainland United States/North America) Page 5 ---Moravia---Ito Hirobumi---Omaha---Hector Page 6 ---Circassians (or Adyghe)---religious education in public schools (accept descriptive equivalents; prompt on partial answers, like “teaching” or “religious practice;” do not accept or prompt on school prayer)---Scythians---Venustiano Carranza Garza Page 7 ---Pyotr Stolypin---Charles George “Chinese”---Fugger family---Baldassare Page 8 ---Manuel Godoy y Alvarez de Faria Page 9---