Nats---True---153
This man was formerly known as Colonel Trunk after an escape to the Brazilian embassy in the back of a car. This man’s closest ally, Andres Rodriguez, agreed to depose this man after being threatened by grenade. The (+) Archives of Terror helped document this man’s crimes during his participation in Operation Condor. Ciudad (*) del Este was renamed in the honor of this man, who worked together with Brazil to build the Itaipu Dam. This man’s 35 years of rule were called El Stronato. For the points, identify this leader who was born to German immigrants and ruled Paraguay in the mid 1900s.---Suraqa bin Malik was forced to give up on interfering with this event after his horse repeatedly became stuck in the sand. This event occurred after a guarantee of protection at (+) al-Aqabah, and resulted in the renaming of Yathrib. A structure was built at Quba at the culmination of this event, whose participants hid in a cave in Mount (*) Thawr from the pursuing Quraysh. This event marks the ﬁrst year of the Islamic calendar, and its participants remained at its destination until the 629 conquest of Mecca. For the points, Muhammad led his followers to Medina in what 622 event, Arabic for “migration”?---This man’s decision to appoint John Ernuszt as tax collector led the Union of the Three Nations to oppose him in Transylvania. Civilians honored this man as (+) “the Just” after he disguised himself amongst commoners to ensure they were getting fair trials. Despite the Imperial Diet’s attempt to install (*) Vladislaus Jagiello, this man’s victories over the Hussites secured him the title of King of Bohemia. This man established the professionalized Black Army during his reign. For the points, identify this son of Janos Hunyadi, a king who greatly expanded Hungarian military power.---This person ran for Congress after Edna Kelly sought re-election in a different district; in that election, this person defeated James Farmer’s Liberal Party ticket. This person controversially visited (+) George Wallace at a hospital after his assassination attempt. This person ran on the campaign slogan “Unbought and (*) Unbossed”, which also titles her memoir. In 1972, this person became the ﬁrst woman to run for the Democratic Party presidential nomination. For the point, name this ﬁrst black elected to Congress, doing so in New York’s 12th district in 1968. Chisholm---This man was thwarted when a candle wrapped in red-scarf was used by Thomas Curnow to signal police. This man spoke of the (+) “mythical tradition of Irish rebellion” in defending his decision to murder three oﬃcers at Stringybark Creek. After this man outlined his motives in the (*) Jerilderie Letter, he shot Aaron Sherritt and attempted to derail a train bringing news of his crimes. He was caught at Glenrowan and executed. For the points, identify this Australian Bushranger who became known for wearing a suit of bulletproof armor in his last battle.---A member of this family won the Battle of White Plains but failed to cut oﬀ the retreating general’s escape to Westchester County. One member of this family died in the arms of a young (+) Israel Putnam after a disastrous attack at Carillon. The Battle of Cape Spartel was won by a member of this family as part of ending the (*) Great Siege of Gibraltar. A member of this family won the Battle of Brandywine and captured Philadelphia having earlier replaced Thomas Gage and winning the Battle of Bunker Hill. For the points, name this British military family which included William.---One poster published by this organization depicts a hydra with heads labeled “capitalism,” “the nobility,” and “the new militarism” being slain by a worker. This organization split oﬀ from the (+) USPD, although the Revolutionary Stewards declined to join this organization, whose main newspaper was “The Red Flag.” Two of this organization’s leaders were executed after an event where Gustav (*) Noske protected Friedrich Ebert’s government from being overthrown by this organization. The Freikorps crushed, for the points, the namesake 1919 uprising of what organization, which was led by Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg?---At the end of a ﬁlm by this director, the elderly Kane attempts to save her dead husband from a non-existent explosion. This director of Rhapsody in August , oversaw a ﬁlm in which a (+) woodcutter ﬁnds, and takes home, an abandoned infant. This director’s ability to tell a story from its “lowliest characters” inspired George Lucas to have (*) C-3PO and R2-D2 drive the plot of Star Wars. This man created an adaptation of MacBeth titled Throne of Blood which starred Toshiro Mifune. In a ﬁlm by this director, a group of warriors defend a town from bandits during the Sengoku period. For the points, name this Japanese director responsible for Rashoman and Seven Samurai.---One of this movement’s goals was eventually recognized in the Nine Power Treaty. This movement opposed the Twenty-One Demands. Chen Duxiu helped lead this movement, which drove him towards Marxism. This movement turned the (+) New Culture Movement political and adopted the ideals of “Mr. Science” and “Mr. Democracy.” This movement was sparked by Japan receiving the former German (*) concession of Qingdao, known as the Shandong Problem. For the points, name this student-led movement which criticized China’s diplomatic failure in the Treaty of Versailles.---A ﬁctional merchant from this city jumped into the sea to appease the Sea Tsar and married the mermaid Chernava, who turned into a river. This home of Sadko held the (+) easternmost outpost of the Hanseatic League and fought a series of wars against Sweden for control of the Gulf of Finland. One leader from this city defeated the Swedish at the Battle of the (*) Neva before defeating the Bishop of Dorpat and the Livonian Order on Lake Peipus at the Battle on the Ice. For the points, name this Russian city which was eventually eclipsed and conquered by its rival, Moscow, and which was the home of Alexander Nevsky.---In a speech during this trial, the defense attorney compared power to a “great river” and declared liberty to be the “best cause”. During this trial, Richard Bradley denied that the prosecution was advocating for punishments similar to those of the notorious (+) Court of the Star Chamber. The defense attorney in this trial would later plan the construction of Independence Hall. Justice James DeLancey oversaw this trial, which was prompted by the removal of Judge (*) Lewis Morris. In this trial, the editor of the New York Weekly Journal was defended by Andrew Hamilton against libel accusations leveled by Governor William Cosby. For the points, name this colonial-era trial centering on the namesake German-American newspaper editor.---namesake titan wielding ﬁre before the statue was moved to a nearby garden of remembrance. The half-ruined (+) Polissya hotel is located in this city which is also home to the Azure Swimming Pool which remained in operation until 1998. Igor Kostin photographed a helicopter ﬂying over a site just outside this city in preparation for incoming “liquidators.” An oft-photographed (*) Ferris wheel in this city was scheduled to open for May Day celebrations but was permanently delayed when the city was evacuated due to an April 1986 disaster. For the points, name this Ukrainian town which was constructed to house workers from the Chernobyl Nuclear plant. Pripyat (do not accept or prompt on Chernobyl)---This person and Mary Harriman Rumsey, the leader of The Junior League, had a relationship. This professor at Adelphi College helped pass a “ﬁfty hour bill” on workdays. This woman investigated the (+) Freeman plant ﬁre in Birmingham, New York. With Eleanor Roosevelt, this woman helped draw support for She-She-She Camps. (*) Minimum wage and overtime was implemented by this secretary who enforced the Fair Labor Standards Act. This person left the Consumers League after witnessing the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory ﬁre. Leading the Department of Labor under FDR, name this ﬁrst female cabinet member.---After an assassination attempt on one member of this family, Rehman Malik was replaced as head security chief by the 111th “Psychological” Brigade, which partnered closely with the (+) ISI. Another member of this family signed the Simla Agreement with his country’s eastern neighbor, despite earlier declaring that his government would make (*) nuclear bombs, even if they have to eat grass. One member of this family was ousted and executed by Zia-ul-Haq’s July 5th coup while another member of this family was assassinated by a suicide bomb at Liaqat National Park in December, 2007. For the points, name this family of Pakistani politicians, whose most notable members included Zulﬁqar Ali and his daughter Benazir.---In this work, a character observes people ballroom dancing prompting them to write the essay “A World Without Collisions.” The title character of this play suggests Charles Darwin and not Napoleon is a (+) “man of magnitude.” This play is set while a character’s father is attempting to be discharged from a hospital. A character in this play can’t pay for a (*) jukebox because he must pay for his bus fare home, and is preparing for a ballroom dance contest with Hilda. Characters reminisce about ﬂying a kite and a Hallie spits in the face of Sam in, for the points, what Apartheid-era play by Athol Fugard?---Law and the Combination Act banned these organizations in France and Britain. Many of London’s (+) livery companies originated from these organizations. People barred from joining these organizations supported Michele di Lando during the (*) Florentine ciompi revolt. Members of these institutions started as apprentices, then became journeymen and ﬁnally master craftsmen. For the points, name these associations of artisans and merchants, the precursor to modern trade unions. Guilds (prompt on unions)---A militant group in this country forced citizens into its ranks with the “Gandira” method. Kaulza de Arriga commanded Operation Gordian Knot during this country’s war for independence. Joaquim (+) Chissano succeeded Samora Michel as president of this country after Michel died in a 1986 plane crash. Chissano later signed the (*) Rome Peace Accords with RENAMO leader Afonso Dhlakama, ending a 15-year long civil war in this country. For the points. name this East African country that was declared free of landmines in 2015 and where the FRELIMO party has dominated the government since the country’s 1975 independence from Portugal.---Bernard Cohen and Philip Hirschkop ﬁled a motion that elevated this case. Earl Warren called an action central to this case “fundamental to our very existence and survival” and part of the (+) “basic civil rights of man”. One person in this case actually was of Indian-Rappahannock ancestry instead of her presumed African-American heritage. This case overruled the decisions in the (*) Monks case and in Pace v. Alabama. This case was brought up due to a violation of Virginia’s 1924 Racial Integrity Act. Laws banning interracial marriage were nulliﬁed in, for the points, what 1967 Supreme Court civil rights case?---This city is home to Saint Elijah’s Monastary which closed in 1743 after all the momks were killed by attacking Persians. A mosque in this city contained a minaret known as (+) “Iraq’s Tower of Pisa” because the minaret was leaning. A house in this city was where Saddam Hussein’s sons Uday and Qusay were killed. ISIS once controlled the (*) Ninawa International Hotel in this city, which resides directly opposite from Nineveh on the bank of the Tigris River. For the point, what Iraqi city was captured alongside Fallujah by ISIS in 2014 until it was liberated in 2017?---A gold funerary mask dated to this period was discovered in Grave Circle A and was described as the “Mona Lisa of prehistory.” The Treasury of Atreus is an example of this period’s (+) tholos or beehive tombs. A system of syllabic script used during this period was deciphered by Michael Ventris and is known as (*) Linear B. The Dorian Invasion during the Bronze Age Collapse is thought to have contributed to this period’s demise. For the points, name this preclassical period of Ancient Greece that saw the reign of king Agamemnon.---Because the victorious side in this battle was busy looting almost a thousand chariots, the losing side managed to defend the namesake fortress during a seven-month siege until the King of (+) Kadesh ﬂed. A commander at this battle rejected his generals’ advice and marched through the town of Aruna via a narrow ravine. (*) Tjaneni kept careful records of this battle, which were later used to carve victory inscriptions in the Temple of Amun-Ra at Karnak. For the points, name this 15th century BC engagement between the Canaanites and Egyptians led by pharaoh Thutmose III, the earliest recorded battle in history.---This city created the ﬁrst municipal zoning ordinance in the U.S. in 1908. This city’s Terminal Island built over 300 Liberty Ships after its shipyard’s construction in 1941. The collapse of the (+) St. Francis Dam near this city ended the career of a civil engineer responsible for creating this city’s namesake “Aqueduct”, which fueled this city’s growth post-1913. Frederick (*) Eaton partnered with William Mulholland to divert water from the Owens River to this city in the San Fernando Valley. For the points, name this West Coast city, the second-largest in the U.S.---This monarch ordered a copy of every book printed in his kingdom in the Ordinance of Montpellier and replaced Latin with French as the administrative language of his country in the Ordinance of (+) Villers-Cotterets. This monarch ordered the massacre of Waldensians in M´erindol after turning against Protestantism in the Aﬀair of the (*) Placards. The Treaty of Madrid was rejected by this monarch after being held captive, where he wrote “nothing remains to me except honor and life.” Leonardo da Vinci was invited to work in France by, for the points, what monarch who lost the Battle of Pavia to Emperor Charles V?---A female member of this family opposed the Indian Removal Bill with a circular and called for the incorporation of kindergarten into schooling. Along with (+) Catherine, another member of this family was revealed to be having an aﬀair by Elizabeth Woodhull and was Henry Ward. Breech loading (*) Sharps riﬂes from New England were called this family’s namesake “Bibles”. One member of this family wrote Dred, A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp and was accused by Abraham Lincoln as the “little woman” who “started this great war”. For the points, name this family of abolitionists, whose members included the writer of Uncle Tom’s Cabin.---The Institute for Historical Review was founded to promote this action and lost a lawsuit to Mel Mermelstein for causing “pain, anguish, and suffering.” Christopher Browning testiﬁed to the plausibility of the (+) Madagascar Plan in a trial where David Irving sued Deborah Lipstadt for libel after she claimed Irving did this action in a book titled for this action. The Volkverhetzung, or “incitement to (*) hatred” law, is used to prosecute this action in Germany. For the points, name this anti-Semitic act, which might involve claiming there were no gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau.---The “Outlaw Resolution” was passed by Warren Harding in the wake of one of these events in which workers had seniority rights removed and which was ended by the (+) “Daugherty Injunction”. Along with one of these events in 1922, another caused Thomas Scott suggest “a riﬂe diet...” and that event of this type saw a uprising in (*) Shamokin and the Reading massacre. One event of this type began in Martinsburg, West Virginia and was a response to a third wage cut by the Baltimore and Ohio. For the points, name these events, one of which took place in 1877, in which freight and passenger cars were out of action.---During this conﬂict, the sinking of a ship commanded by Captain Galsworthy nearly resulted in a diplomatic incident. The Kim Ok-Gyun affair and the (+) Donghak Peasant Revolt occurred prior to this conﬂict during which the Battle of Pyongyang occurred. The Beiyang Fleet was decisively defeated at the Battle of the (*) Yalu River during this conﬂict. This conﬂict ended with one side ceding Taiwan to the other in the Treaty of Shimonoseki. For the points, name this conﬂict in which the Qing Dynasty was defeated by an Asian country led by Emperor Meiji.---This man created a “layer cake” design that used alternating layers of uranium and deuterium; later, he developed a namesake “Third Idea,” known in the United States as the Teller-Ulam design, for a (+) hydrogen bomb. This scientist, who names three necessary conditions for baryogenesis, went on a hunger strike in 1984 to protest his wife’s travel ban. This man’s (*) political activism led to him being exiled to Gorky. For the points, name this Soviet physicist and nuclear disarmament activist, the namesake of a European award for human rights.---This group decreed that one lawmaking organization had to meet at least once every three years in the Triennial Acts. The Five Members, including John Hampden and (+) John Pym, were members of this larger body. The Self-Denying Ordinance decreed one could be a member of this body or the army. George (*) Monck restored this body and forced it to change to the Convention Parliament by reinstating members who were removed in Pride’s Purge. For the points, the Rump Parliament was formed out of what governmental body that lasted throughout the English Civil War.---This work claims that machine manufacture changes division of labor by prioritizing surplus value. Chapter 10 of this work describes the British campaign for a 10-hour work day against (+) “vampires.” A commodity is deﬁned by this work as a use-value and an exchange-value which are ultimately determined by its socially necessary (*) labor time. This work criticizes giving value to economic exchanges instead of their underlying social interactions, which it calls commodity fetishism. Friedrich Engels added two volumes to, for the points, what work subtitled “Critique of Political Economy” by Karl Marx? Das Kapital (or Capital: Critique of Political Economy)---Chief Kepuha’s conversion to Catholicism on this island allowed the Spanish to build Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathedral. The Sergeant Shoichi Yokoi was found living in (+) Talofofo Cave of this island in the early 1970s, returning to Japan soon after. His superior, Lt. Gen. Hideyoshi Obata, committed seppuku at this island’s Mount Mataguac after failing to hold it. This island’s motto is (*) “Land of the Chamorros,” in reference to the dominant Austronesian group that still inhabit the island. For the point, name this unincorporated territory in Micronesia ceded to the US along with the Philippines and Puerto Rico at the end of the Spanish-American War.---During one event, Michael Corbett told Henry Panton that if he crossed a lint of salt he would take it as proof that he was attempting to perform this action. Thomas (+) Jeﬀerson claimed that an incident surrounding this practice put war with the British into his hands and that he only had to open them to “let havoc loose.” James Barron was (*) court-martialed following an 1807 incident in which this practice was carried out at Hampton Roads. The Chesapeake-Leopard aﬀair was caused by, for the points, what practice of forcing men into military service commonly carried out by the British navy?---In 1944, Joseph Stalin was so enthralled at a Maria Yudina recording of one of this composer’s works that he requested an immediate copy of the performance. A piano concerto by this composer was written for (+) Countess Antonia Lutzow, while another piano concerto by this composer was given its nickname for its performance when (*) Leopold II became Holy Roman Emperor. This composer wrote a serenade and symphony for the Haﬀner family. As a child, this composer toured Europe with his sister Nannerl and father Leopold. For the points, name this composer of Eine Kleine Nachtmusik and the “Jupiter” symphony.---country, which led to the establishment of the “Meek Spain” period. One rebellion in this country began at the (+) Count’s Gate, which is where the rebellion’s leader Francisco del Rosario S´anchez is buried. A group known as “La Trinitaria” advocated for the independence of this nation, which was governed by (*) Jean-Pierre Boyer’s Code Rural. Juan Pablo Duarte is considered this country’s “founding father”, and this country was almost annexed by the United States under Grant’s presidency though Charles Sumner strongly denounced the proposal. For the points, name this nation that was occupied by Haiti until 1844 and shares Hispaniola. Dominican Republic---Andrew Rosenthal claimed this man had been awe-struck by an electronic grocery scanner in an article showing he was out of touch with the middle-class. (+) After refusing to debate an opponent, this man’s speeches were heckled by a man in a chicken suit who was accompanied by “Colonel James (*) Baker III” who would translate his chicken noises. This man lost a tennis match to Emperor Akihito hours before vomiting on the lap of the Japanese Prime Minister. For the points, name this President whose many political gaﬀes contributed to his 1992 loss to Bill Clinton.---Description acceptable. This experiment included tons of metal fashioned into small cylinders that became known as “Spedding’s eggs.” During this experiment, Norman (+) Hilberry stood ready to cut the scram line. This experiment, which was moved to the Red Gate Woods at what is now Argonne National Laboratory, was initially carried out under a set of stands at the mostly-unused (*) Stagg Field. George Weil manned the control rods during, for the points, what experiment carried out by Enrico Fermi in Chicago in 1942 as part of the Manhattan Project?---In a 1930 proposal titled the “Memorandum in the Organization of a Regime of European Federal Union”, this man called for an economic union that would counter Germany’s post World War One recovery. An agreement between this man and (+) Bonaventura Cerretti allowed the Vatican to nominate French diocesan bishops. A pact passed by this non-American codiﬁed the idea of a crime against peace but failed to include enforcement protocols. For helping to negotiate the (*) Locarno Treaties, this man and Gustav Stresemann won the Novel Peace Prize. For the points, name this eleven term Prime Minster of France who signed a peace agreement with Frank Kellogg.---Stanley Forman captured Joseph Rakes on camera attacking civil rights activist Ted Landsmark with one of these objects during a crisis that saw Louise Day Hicks create the organization (+) ROAR. In a war named for one of these objects, antagonism stirred when Wiremu Kingi Maketu was executed and the central incident in that war occurred on Maiki (*) Hill despite calls from William Williams not to do it. That war named for this object saw the Battle of Ruapekapeka where Hone Heke fought. For the points, name this type of object that after being cut down instigated war between Britain and the Maori. Flagpole (accept Flagstaﬀ ; accept Flag)---In this country, a day known as,”the long Friday”, saw sausages sold out and sweets bought for employers for kids at work. The Redstockings helped inspire a strike in this country in 1975, the (+) Women’s Day Oﬀ. The ﬁrst democratically elected female president in the world was elected in this country. This country had a trade monopoly with (*) Denmark. When the Laki volcano erupted, crop failure led to the Mist Hardships in this island, which had a conﬂict over cod with Britain. Vigdis Finnbogadottir served as president of, for the points, what island nation near Greenland?---Journalist Walter Liggett was killed in this city by a mobster who went unprosecuted by governor Floyd Olson. Kid Cann worked in this city, whose 1934 general strike was led by the (+) Teamsters. This city’s Metropolitan Building was demolished along with most of its Gateway District in the 1950s. Lincoln (*) Steﬀens exposed the “Shame” of this city in an article attacking its four-term mayor “Doc” Ames. This city in Hennepin County is the larger of the Twin Cities. For 10 points, name this Midwestern city located adjacent to its state’s capital of St. Paul.---
Alfredo Stroessner---hijra (accept hegira)---Matthias Corvinus (accept Matthias I)---Shirley Page 1 ---Edward “Ned” Kelly---Howe family---Spartacists (or Spartacus League)---Akira Kurosawa Page 2 ---May 4th Movement (or “wusi yundong”)---Veliky Novgorod (do not prompt on or accept “Nizhny Novgorod”)---John Peter Zenger Trial (accept Crown v. John Peter Zenger) This city is home to the Prometheus cinema which formerly hosted a statue of its---Page 3 ---Frances Perkins---Bhutto family (accept Zulﬁqar Ali Bhutto; accept Benazir Bhutto)---Master Harold...and the Boys These organizations gained protection from the Ordinances of Justice. The Le Chapelier---Page 4 ---Republic of Mozambique---Loving v. Virginia---Mosul---Mycenaeen period---Battle of Megiddo (accept Siege of Megiddo) Page 5 ---Los Angeles (accept LA)---Francis I (prompt on Francis)---Beecher family (prompt on Stowe)---Denying the Holocaust (or Holocaust denial) Page 6 ---Great Railroad Strikes---First Sino-Japanese War (Accept War of Jiawu) (NHBB Nats)---Andrei Sakharov---Long Parliament (prompt on “parliament” before ﬁrst mention of “Parliament”)---Page 7 ---Guam---impressment---Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart British general Hugh Carmichael helped Spain carry out a 19th Reconquista in this---Page 8 ---George Herbert Walker Bush (accept Bush 41; prompt on Bush alone)---Chicago Pile-1 (accept descriptions of the ﬁrst self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction; accept descriptions of the ﬁrst artiﬁcial/man-made nuclear reactor; accept descriptions of the ﬁrst man-made nuclear ﬁssion; prompt on partial answers, like “nuclear reaction” or “Fermi/Chicago nuclear experiments”; prompt on “Manhattan Project” before mentioned)---Aristide Briand---Page 9 ---Iceland---Minneapolis Page 10---