Nats---True---164
Cardinal Innitzer offered aid for this event, only to be told that its home country had “neither cardinals nor cannibals.” The New York Times ’ Walter Duranty won a Pulitzer Prize for his correspondence work, which explicitly denied this event. In 2007, the (+) Verkhovna Rada declined to vote on a bill that would criminalize the denial of this event; that bill was proposed by Viktor (*) Yushchenko. The possession of food was a criminal oﬀense during, for the point, what 1932-33 Soviet-engineered genocide in which over three million Ukrainians starved to death?---Richard Brewer was appointed the leader of a group with this name by John B. Wilson. That group was created to catch the killers of John Tunstall. William Tyrod defeated a force with this name, led by Herman Husband, at the Battle of Alamance in North Carolina. One group of this name employed Billy the Kid during the (+) Lincoln County War. A militia group of this name was led by Charles Jackson in Shelby County, close to the Louisiana-Texas border, in a cattle-thieving conﬂict in which 40 people died in the (*) 1840s. For the point, give this shared name of several 19th century forces, one of which fought a war with the Moderators, who used vigilante action to control the government.---Both of these countries were thrown out of the 1987 World Juniors after the Punch-Up in Piestany. Paul Henderson scored the winning goal in a series between the national teams of these two countries in which Vladislav Tretiak backstopped the losing team. The (+) Luzhniki Palace of Sports was the site of the ﬁnal four of eight games in the 1972 Summit Series between these two countries that was nicknamed the “Cold War on Ice” and had been set up to facilitate better relations via (*) hockey diplomacy. For the point, name these two Cold War hockey superpowers.---This man lost power for ﬁve days in the midst of a crisis in which the Italian tanker Rose Mary was captured by the British. This leader’s actions kicked oﬀ the Abadan Crisis. He was the victim of the 28 Mordad coup, which received assistance from Kermit (+) Roosevelt Jr. and General Norman Schwarzkopf Sr., who had trained the secret police force of his successor. Operation Ajax targeted this man’s government after he sought to nationalize an industry controlled by the (*) Anglo-Persian Oil Company. For the point, name this Prime Minister of Iran who was ousted in an U.S. backed coup in 1953. Mosaddegh---In a comic expressing panic over the potential success of this goal, Thomas Nast created the Republican elephant symbol. In attempting to accomplish this goal, Roscoe Conkling gave a speech with the line “he hails from Appomattox and its famous apple tree.” The precedent that seemingly (+) prevented this action was downplayed due to its subject’s youth. More delegates were pledged toward this goal than any other at the start of the 1880 convention, but it was (*) unsuccessful. For the point, name this action which did not occur in either 1876 or 1880, as a former Union general followed George Washington’s precedent and retired to private life instead.---This weapon used a programmable logic controller rootkit, but was designed to ignore victims that did not have the Step7 engineering platform, produced by Siemens. It used a series of four “zero day” vulnerabilities to provide false feedback on (+) centrifuges that were instructed to spin themselves to failure. It is believed that this weapon was delivered in 2007 via a (*) USB ﬂash drive at a uranium enrichment plant. For the point, name this computer worm that, in 2007, attacked Iran’s nuclear program.---One possibly apocryphal story claims that Socrates saved the life of this man at the battle of Potidaea. This exile, who was allegedly killed in Phrygia by agents of Pharnabazus, held his last command at the battle of Notium. Critias helped orchestrate the (+) return of this man to his home city, years after he was accused of desecrating the Hermai statues. With (*) Nicias and Lamachus, this man led the Sicilian Expedition. For the point, name this Athenian general of the Peloponnesian War who later defected to Sparta.---painter Charles le Brun. Austerlitz by Fran¸cois G´erard and Bouvines by Horace Vernet are among the largest paintings in this location’s (+) “Battles Gallery.” An antechamber in this location contains a Charpentier painting of a famous resident who maintained an 86-acre (*) “Petit Domaine” here, Marie Antoinette. For the point, name this opulent royal palace of [fourteenth], known for its Hall of Mirrors. Louis XIV---In this battle, Thomas du Plessis and Nathaniel Greene’s cannons on Combs Hill provided support for an army that had absorbed Charles Lee’s men; Lee had been relieved of command and was (+) court-martialed after this battle. During this battle, Wilhelm Von Knyphausen covered a retreat to Sandy Hook. This battle ended the Philadelphia campaign, as Henry (*) Clinton was commanded to evacuate to New York. For the point, name this victory for the Continental Army in the sweltering New Jersey heat, during which American troops were legendarily refreshed by Molly Pitcher.---This leader effectively broke oﬀ relations with the United States by repeatedly shouting “To hell with your aid!” An early teacher of this man was Omar Said Tjokroaminoto. This man contrasted “Nekolim,” or neocolonialism, with “Nefo,” or “New Emerging Forces.” He formulated the Pantjasila, or Five (+) Principles, for his new state. This man was targeted by a failed army coup called the September 30th Movement, and established (*) “Guided Democracy”. For the point, what ﬁrst president of independent Indonesia was succeeded by Suharto?---One ruler with this name tried to institute hereditary succession with the Erbreichsplan [erb-rikes-plan]. After marrying Queen Constance, a ruler with this name became King of Sicily. Prior to marrying Geoffrey of Anjou, Empress (+) Matilda was married to a ruler of this name. A ruler with this name signed the Concordat of Worms with Pope Callixtus II. After being (*) excommunicated, one ruler with this name stood outside of Canossa for three days in the snow in order to repent. For the point, give this name of seven Holy Roman Emperors, the fourth of whom feuded with Pope Gregory VII during the Investiture Controversy.---Brands of these goods include Montecristo, Romeo y Julieta, and Cohiba, the last of which is produced by the state-owned company Habanos. Lectors once read aloud as entertainment in (+) factories where these goods were produced. A decade before the formation of the AFL, a union for the making of these goods elected Samuel Gompers as its president. Shortly before restricting the (*) importation of these goods from one country, John F. Kennedy placed an order for 1,200 of them. The lifting of the Cuban embargo promises to increase importation of, for the point, what tobacco products?---One man known to Europeans by this title won the 1913 battle of Dul Madoba over British troops. The Dervish State was led by the so-called “Mad” leader of this type in what’s now Somalia. Another leader who took this title lost an (+) eye in battle, perhaps at Arghandab or Jalalabad, in the late 1980s; that man of this title ordered that giant Buddha statues at Bamiyan be blown up and went into hiding among (*) Pashtuns after a 2001 American invasion ousted his government. For the point, name this title used for an educator in Islam at many Shi’a madrassas, which Muhammad Omar took as leader of the Afghan Taliban.---Paul Foot has written on the coincidence of the central role of a rigged Toshiba cassette radio in both this event and activities in Frankfurt. This event was originally blamed on Palestinian nationalist groups and the “Ulster (+) Defence League,” before the discovery of a suitcase apparently connected to Abdelbaset al-Megrahi. The only person convicted for this event was a Libyan intelligence oﬃcer who may have acted on the orders of (*) Muammar Gaddaﬁ. For the point, name this December 1988 terrorist attack in which Pan Am Flight 103 was bombed over a Scottish town.---This work ends by “ﬁrmly relying upon the ﬁnal triumph of the Right and the True” after describing how “the history of mankind is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations.” This work’s conclusion argues that, in view of “social and religious degradation” and “this entire (+) disfranchisement,” a social group be given “all the rights and privileges” earned by their (*) citizenship. For the point, name this document that holds as self-evident the truth that “all men and women are created equal,” written and signed by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and the attendees of the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention.---the history of World War II,” and he once used a pun about a “crematorium” to refer to his rival, Michel Durafour. This man was routed in a 2002 election by a man using the slogan “Vote for the (+) Crook, not the Fascist.” He was succeeded as party leader by his own daughter, who ﬁnished third in 2012 presidential voting behind (*) Hollande and Sarkozy. For the point, name this father of Marine, a right-wing French politician who led the National Front party until 2011. Le Pen---In a parody of this literary work, Ernest Crosby wrote about places with “no cheerful iron mills” or “department stores.” This text tells people to be done with “the lightly proffered laurel.” Both clergyman H.T. Johnson and journalist E.D. Morel wrote responses to this poem that changed one word in its title. Published with the subtitle “The (+) United States and the Philippine Islands,” this poem begins with lines saying “send forth the (*) best ye breed” and exhorts the listener to “take up” the title entity. For the point, name this Rudyard Kipling poem frequently used to support imperialism.---On the night of this event, John Cole suggested that the crowd attracted to this event would “not be so public” as he dined at Sabin’s Tavern. An Oration, Upon the Beauties of Liberty by preacher John Allen repeatedly referenced this event, which was led by Abraham Whipple. In this event, Captain (+) Lindsey’s evasive maneuvers in the packet sloop Hannah forced William Dudingston’s ship (*) onto a sandbar, after which the Sons of Liberty got vengeance for that ship’s harassment of Narragansett Bay. For the point, name this June 1772 event in Rhode Island, in which a British ship was controversially burned.---This author worked with Elisabeth Burgos-Debray on an autobiography that David Stoll criticized for assuming the inevitability of armed guerrilla warfare. This activist earned 3% of the popular vote in presidential elections in 2007 and 2011, which were won by Otto P´erez (+) Molina. The Nobel committee recognized the ﬁve hundredth anniversary of Columbus’ voyage to the New World while granting this (*) woman the 1992 Nobel Peace Prize for her work advocating for human rights of the Quich´e [kee-chay] people and other indigenous Central Americans. For the point, name this Guatemalan human rights activist.---This mountain range contains the ﬁrst river to be designated as a National River, the Buffalo. Another water feature in this mountain range was created when Dismal Creek bored a hole through a bluﬀ creating Glory Hole Falls. The early Civil War battle of Wilson’s Creek was fought in this range. The Shawnee Hills are often called the (+) Illinois section of this range. Land in this range was purchased by Jim McDougal’s Whitewater Development Corporation, in which (*) Bill and Hillary Clinton participated. For the point, name this mountain range mostly located in Arkansas and Missouri. Ozark Mountains---The founder of this dynasty converted to Catholicism after signing the Union of Krewo and entered a personal union with his southern neighbour after he married Queen Jadwiga. When this dynasty’s last ruler (+) Sigismund II, died childless, an elected monarchy was created through the Union of Lublin. Vytautas the Great’s forces assisted this dynasty’s founder in beating the (*) Teutonic Knights at the Battle of Grunwald. For the point, name this dynasty that united Poland and Lithuania in the 14th through 16th centuries.---A photo of a girl with her nose cut oﬀ captioned “What Happens if We Leave Afghanistan” was featured on the cover of one issue of this magazine. The inaugural issue of this magazine featured Speaker of the House Joseph (+) Cannon on his last day in oﬃce. This magazine controversially darkened O.J. Simpson’s mugshot. “The Inheritor,” “The Peacemakers,” and “the (*) Ebola ﬁghters” have been recognized by an annual award that this magazine also gave to “You” in 2006. For the point, name this American magazine that names an annual “Person of the Year.”---This man claimed that a Cincinnati man named Adam Thompson built America’s ﬁrst bathtub in 1842 in a famous hoax published in the New York Evening Mail . With George Jean Nathan, this man founded The American Mercury , a magazine that later was attacked for its (+) anti-Semitism. This man, who called Puritanism “the haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy,” gained fame as an editor of the (*) Baltimore Sun. For the point, name this “Sage of Baltimore” who coined the phrase “Scopes Monkey Trial.”---The majority of the bank of the Kaveri River was built by Karikalan, a ruler from this dynasty. A giant statue of the God Nandi lies at the entrance of the Brihadeeswarar Temple, which was constructed by this dynasty. This dynasty conquered the Andaman and (+) Nicobar Islands under Rajendra I, son of Raja Raja I. This dynasty originates from the Sangam Period, as do the (*) Chera and Pandya dynasties. For the point, name this Tamil dynasty that ruled Southern India from 300 BC to the 1200s.---This man’s defense of Fabre d’Eglantine led to a threat on his life. After Charles-Francois Dumouriez defected to the Austrians, this man was accused of treason. Before his execution, this man said “Don’t forget to (+) show my head to the people. It’s well worth seeing.” For opposing the Reign of Terror, this man was executed, but not before accurately predicting the death of his former (*) ally, who was executed in the Thermidorian Reaction. For the point, name this ﬁrst president of the Committee of Public Safety and former ally of Maximilien Robespierre.---Magnus Barefoot died during one of these events. In Ireland, these events often resulted in the creation of a longphort. Odo, Count of Paris was made a king following his successes during one of these events. The ﬁrst recorded event of this type occurred on Portland, which resulted in the death of a (+) reeve. One of these events resulted in the abandonment of Iona Abbey. In an early one of these events, St. (*) Cuthbert’s remains were moved when the Isle of Lindisfarne was attacked. For the point, name these attacks carried out by seafaring Norsemen. Viking raids (or equivalents; prompt on raids or equivalents alone)---This author described a party served by white South Americans thrown by Felicia Montealegre and Leonard Bernstein with Black Panther representatives as special guests. This writer opened an anti-modern architecture text by parodying “America the Beautiful.” This author of From Bauhaus to Our House coined terms like “radical (+) chic” and “the Me Decade.” This man wrote a 1968 book recounting the experiences of (*) Ken Kesey and his Merry Pranksters. For the point, name this writer whose early works of New Journalism include The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.---A plan to obtain these objects was known as Operation Moolah. The Catalina Affair was sparked when these objects approached Swedish vehicles. A key component of these objects was directly copied from the Rolls-Royce Nene. These objects were analyzed after Viktor Belenko brought one codenamed “Foxbat” to (+) Hokkaido in 1972. During a run involving one of these objects, Yuri Gagarin was killed. These objects named an (*) “alley” along the Yalu River, where they would frequently clash with the F-86 Sabre. For the point, name these Soviet ﬁghter jets.---This early president of the American Bible Society claimed the “Christian Religion” was “the fundamental precept of governance.” This man lost a gubernatorial election to George Clinton after three counties’ votes were (+) disqualiﬁed. He claimed to have been able to travel from Boston to Philadelphia in the light of his burning eﬃgies. This man was the principal American negotiator of a (*) treaty eliminating British control of forts in the Northwest Territory. For the point, name this namesake of a 1795 treaty regulating trade between the U.S. and Great Britain, who was also the ﬁrst Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.---and replaced him with the prefect of Bordeaux. The P´ereire brothers created the Cr´edit Mobilier to ﬁnance this event, during which the glass and iron pavillions of Les Halles were constructed. This project, whose main directive was to (+) “aerate, unify, and embellish,” was partly inspired by one man’s admiration for Hyde Park,. During it, many streets on the ˆ Ile-de-Cit´e were (*) obliterated by the Prefect of the Seine, who tried to style himself a Baron. For the point, name this project driven by Napol´eon III’s desire to modernize his capital city. Haussman’s renovation of Paris (accept descriptions; prompt on---In order to avoid anti-public assembly laws, these people once arrived at a National Assembly in buses with the blinds pulled down and proceeded to sit for four hours. The First Lady called these people “foreign agitators” and said “we shall clap our hands” to see them die. (+) Malcolm Browne took a famous photo of one of these people dying in the streets. ARVN Special Forces attacked them during the Xa Loi (*) Pagoda raids. Thich Quang Duc was one of these people, who protested their treatment by pro-Catholic President Ngo Dinh Diem. For the point, name these people in Vietnam, one of whom set himself on ﬁre in Saigon in June 1963.---In one depiction, this man smokes a cigarette as he stands next to a box reading “In counting there is strength.” In another depiction, this man cannot ﬁt in the “City Jail” as a caption reads “stone walls do not a prison make.” This person is depicted an obese vulture in a drawing captioned “Let Us (+) Prey” and as a man with a money bag for a head in an engraving titled “The Brains.” Oﬃcials in Vigo, Spain, arrested him because they recognized his (*) depictions in Harper’s Weekly. For the point, name this “boss” of Tammany Hall’s political machine, frequently assailed by cartoonist Thomas Nast.---Shortly after the end of this conﬂict, an Arab League summit was held in Cairo; just hours after that, Gamal Abdel Nasser suffered a fatal heart attack. The winning side in this conﬂict received military training from General (+) Zia ul-Haq. This conﬂict was sparked by the establishment of a “Revolutionary airport” at Dawson’s Field, leading King Hussein to declare martial law. A group (*) named after this conﬂict took hostage and killed 11 Israeli athletes during the 1972 Munich Olympics. For the point, name this month long civil war in Jordan that led to the expulsion of the PLO.---An early scene in this opera features the song “Mir ist so wunderbar,” called the Canon Quartet. This was the ﬁrst opera staged in Berlin after World War II, and the premiere of its ﬁrst version was hampered by the presence of Napoleon’s troops in Vienna. Rocco sings the (+) Gravedigging Duet with this opera’s protagonist, who disguises herself as the title character to free her husband (*) Florestan from political prison. Leonore is the hero of, for the point, what only opera composed by Ludwig van Beethoven?---In the prelude to this event, Roger Bushell said “Everyone here in this room is living on borrowed time. By rights, we should all be dead!” Dick Churchill was spared in the aftermath of this event due to his last name. Leonard Trent surrendered immediately after this event, after which he only received (+) solitary conﬁnement. This event made use of three tunnels, codenamed Harry, Tom, and Dick, in case one of them was discovered by the (*) Gestapo. For the point, name this event in which Allied soldiers ﬂed from Stalag Luft III, a German POW camp, immortalized in a 1963 Steve McQueen ﬁlm.---In an oﬀ-the-cuﬀ remark to a reporter, this man unwisely but correctly declared that “Our next war will be with Germany.” This man’s attempt to run for the presidency on the Democratic ticket in 1900 was scuttled when he remarked that he would “execute the orders of Congress as (+) faithfully as I have executed the laws of my superiors.” This man annihilated the ﬂeet of Patricio Montojo y Pasaron by issuing the order “You (*) may ﬁre when you are ready, Gridley” while on board his ﬂagship, the USS Olympia. For the point, name this admiral who commanded the ﬂeet that won the Battle of Manila Bay.---This man was interviewed by Tim Ralfe, who argued that, by choosing to “live in a society that is free and democratic,” Ralfe accepts “the fact the people like [this man] may be kidnapped.” In response, this man noted “there are a lot of bleeding (+) hearts around who just don’t like to see people with helmets and guns,” leading Ralfe to ask “how (*) far” this man would go.” Three days later, this man signed the War Measures Act in an attempt to resolve a crisis sparked by Pierre Laporte’s kidnapping. The quip “Just watch me” was said by, for the point, what Canadian Prime Minister?---fatal incident in one of them. Archibald Leitch designed dozens of these locations, including one at Ibrox that suffered hundreds of casualties twice: due to a structural collapse in 1902, and a (+) human pile-up in 1971. In retaliation for the assassinations of the Cairo Gang earlier in the day, Black and Tans opened ﬁre into a crowd at one of these locations. A disastrous human (*) crush led to the deaths of 96 people at one of these locations called Hillsborough. For the point, name these places, such as London’s Wembley, which host certain sporting events. soccer stadiums (prompt on football stadiums)---This dynasty suffered the tyranny of Dong Zhuo, who was opposed by the Guangdong Coalition. Sima Qian served as a court astrologer during this dynasty, whose history he recorded to ﬁnish his massive (+) Records of the Grand Historian. This dynasty survived a peasant uprising that is depicted in (*) Romance of the Three Kingdoms ; that uprising was led by Zhang Jue and his brothers and was named for the yellow turbans worn by the rebels. For the point, name this Chinese dynasty that ruled in 1 AD and names the majority ethnic group of China.---John Campbell plotted a sneak attack on this city that Bernardo de Galvez discovered. This city was the capital of the territory where the Chickasaw wars occurred, and the (+) pirate Jean Laﬁtte [la-feet] aided in its defense against Edward Pakenham. Adrien de Pauger mapped this city, then argued for its superiority to nearby (*) Biloxi. For the point, name this city defended by Andrew Jackson in January 1815 after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent.---
Holodomor (prompt on descriptions of a Soviet famine in Ukraine; do not accept or prompt “Holocaust”)---Regulators (accept Lincoln Country Regulators; do not accept vigilantes)---Canada and the Soviet Union (accept the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or USSR or Sovetskij Soyuz, Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik, or SSSR for Soviet Union; do not accept or prompt answers involving Russia)---Mohammad Page 1 ---Ulysses S. Grant having a third term as President (or Ulysses S. Grant being nominated and/or running for President for a third time)---Stuxnet (prompt on descriptions of the computer worm that attacked Iran’s nuclear plant before appropriate clues have been given)---Alcibiades This location is the current home of The Tent of Darius , a work by the decorator and---Chateau de Versailles [vayr-SYE] (or Palace of Versailles) Page 2 ---Battle of Monmouth (Courthouse)---Sukarno (or Soekarno; accept Kusnasosro; prompt on Bung Karno)---Henry (or Heinrich)---cigars (accept Cuban cigars, even though Gompers isn’t Cuban) Page 3 ---mullahs (or mawlahs; accept Mad Mullah before “eye” is said; accept sheikh before “Mad” is said)---Lockerbie bombing (or bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 before mentioned)---Declaration of (Rights and) Sentiments This man was ﬁned under the Gayssot Act for calling the Holocaust “just a detail in---Jean-Marie Page 4 ---The White Man’s Burden---Gaspee Aﬀair (accept descriptions of the burning, etc. of the Gaspee)---Rigoberta Menchu´ Tum------Jagiellonian Dynasty Page 5 ---Time---H(enry) L(ouis) Mencken---Chola Dynasty---Georges Danton---Page 6 ---Tom Wolfe---MiG ﬁghter jets (or Mikoyan-Gurevich; accept speciﬁc types such as the MiG-15 or the MiG-25; prompt on (ﬁghter) jets or equivalents)---John Jay Victor Persigny ﬁred Jean-Jacques Berger for his lack of progress in this event,---Georges-Eug`ene “Baron” partial answers; accept Napol´eon III’s renovation of Paris) Page 7 ---Buddhist monks in South Vietnam (prompt on monks; prompt on Vietnamese people)---William “Boss” Tweed---Black September---Fidelio Page 8 ---The Great Escape (accept escaping from Stalag Luft III before the name is said; prompt on descriptions of “escaping from a Nazi POW camp” or similar before “German” is read)---George Dewey---Pierre Trudeau The Taylor Report recommended safety changes at these places in the aftermath of a---Page 9 ---Han Dynasty---New Orleans (or Nouvelle-Orl´eans) Page 10---