Nats---False---167
With the help of his uncle Charles W. Smith, this man served as a legal advisor to Jay Gould. This one-time railroad manager and Indiana senator was the subject of a decision made by E.T. Barnette that was intended to ease the process of receiving aid from the federal government. This man was on the winning ticket of an electoral defeat for Alton Parker, but was accused of being a “machine politician” by the president he served under. This opponent of the Square Deal had an Alaska city named after him. For the point, name this Vice President under Theodore Roosevelt.---While hoping to enlist in the Army as an aviator during the First World War, this composer wrote Trois Chansons, based on 16th century French pieces. Sergei Diaghilev of Ballet Russes commissioned this composer to create La Valse, a tribute to the waltz. This composer adapted six pieces from Isaac Albéniz's set of piano pieces, Iberia, into the orchestral piece Bolero. For the point, name this French composer of Daphnis et Chloé and Gaspard de la nuit.---This man's successor Yun Posun ruled as a figurehead controlled by the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction. This man, who went into exile to Hawaii following the killing of 180 students in the April Revolution, subdued the Jeju Island uprising after their Worker's Party agitated for autonomy. This Prime Minister abandoned his national capital for Busan following a 1950 invasion, later recovered after victories at Osan and Inchon. For the point, name this first Prime Minister of independent South Korea.---The first Admirals Club was opened in this location, whose organizer originally tried to arrange for police to escort limousines from a venue named for Floyd Bennett. This facility sometimes has the acronym “USS” informally appended before it in reference to the water that surrounds its runways. A press conference that inspired the creation of this venue was given after its namesake was taken to Newark instead of the city he led. For the point, name this airport in Queens named for a mayor of New York.---Following Yuan Shao's defeat at Guandu, this man led a force against Jing Province, overthrowing Liu Biao. After his victory at the Battle of Tong Pass, this man sent Zhu [[SHU]] Ling and Xiahou [[shee-ah-HOH]] Yuan to fight against the Di tribes. This man's campaign to restore the lands of the Eastern Han was halted at the Battle of Red Cliffs, where he was defeated by Liu Bei and Sun Quan [[CHOO-wan]]. For the point, name this Three Kingdoms era warlord, founder of the state of Wei.---The best explanation for the deaths of this man and his sons, Paralus and Xanthippus [[zan-THIP-uss], was determined to be typhus at a 1999 epidemiology conference. According to Plutarch, this man's fathering of a namesake son with Aspasia [[ah-SPAY-shah]] led to accusations of corruption. This man developed a grand strategy that involved not facing the army of Sparta, but instead foiling their plan for victory. For the point, name this Athenian statesman of the "Golden Age" who commissioned the Parthenon.---The first Margrave of this city was the ancestor of members of the Frankish Obertenghi family. 46 percent of this city’s population is thought to have died in a 1629 - 1631 plague. One of this city's rulers was defeated at Novara by Louis XII [[the twelfth]]. This city was led by a man nicknamed “the Moor,” or “il Moro,” who patronized da Vinci’s The Last Supper. The Sforza family ruled over this city, which once was capital of the Western Roman Empire. For the point, name this capital of Lombardy.---On the edges of late-medieval English texts, these animals are often seen in combat with knights, possibly in reference to the treacherous Gothic people. The Swabian town of Guttenstein became the center for selling these animals in the early 20th century, sending over four million of these animals to France per year. A predatory type of these animals named Murax are used to create Tyrian Purple, the color associated with Roman emperors. For the point, name these gastropods used for the dish escargot.---During this conflict, the 11th Lord Lovat was nicknamed “the Fox” after switching his allegiance. One leader during this conflict called for the dispersal of troops at Ruthven Barracks until the arrival of French reinforcements. Though he won an early battle at Prestonpans, this conflict was decided by a defeat outside Inverness for the “Young Chevalier.” The Duke of Cumberland earned the nickname "Butcher" for his behavior after putting this rebellion down at the Battle of Culloden. For the point, what pro-Stuart rebellion was led by Bonnie Prince Charlie?---During this event, Quaker Edwin Coppock killed Mayor Fontaine Beckham and freed his five slaves. Much of this event’s planning occurred in the Kennedy farmhouse, and this event’s leader sent an invitation to Frederick Douglass to join the armed cohorts. Colonel Robert E. Lee was assigned to defeat this attack against a certain arsenal. For the point, name this attempt by John Brown to start a slave revolt in Virginia.---Catholic novelist Ayako Sono gave refuge to this politician after he fled his nation, and while there, his attempted resignation by fax machine was rejected by the National Congress. This politician paraded Maoist insurgent Abimael [[ah-BEE-mah-EL]] Guzman in a cartoonesque prison outfit and cage in his national capital. This man's daughter, Keiko, made a failed bid to win the 2021 federal election, narrowly losing to union leader Pedro Castillo. For the point, name this right-wing president of Peru who defeated the Shining Path insurgency.---This man failed to decisively influence the Skirmish at Glendale during the larger Battle of the Seven Pines after failing to ford White Oak Swamp. On the eve of secession, this man organized a raid on the B & O Railroad by blowing up a bridge in Martinsburg in his home state of West Virginia. This general, who died from wounds received from friendly fire, earned his nickname after holding firm during the Battle of Bull Run. For the point, name this tactically brilliant Confederate general who fell at the Battle of Chancellorsville.---Babur possibly imported this geophyte into India from Afghanistan, though its earliest cultivation was likely in 10th century Persia. An era of 18th century Ottoman history with this name is known for its relative peace, due to vizier's Damat Ibrahim's love for this good. Beginning in the Netherlands during the Dutch Golden Age, forty of these flowers sold for 100,000 guilders. The first mass speculative bubble in history occurred over, for the point, what plant during a namesake period of "Mania" in 17th century Europe?---A duty levied on this good by the administration of William Pitt led ambassador John Adams to say the tariff "sacrifices the general interest of the nation to the private interests of a few individuals." The final engagement of the Civil War occurred when the USS Shenandoah sank Union ships in this industry off the Aleutian islands. The city of Nantucket served as a hub of this industry in the 17th and 18th century due to its proximity to the open ocean. For the point, name this industry centered around hunting a marine mammal with Baleen and Sperm species.---The Department of the Treasury was required to inspect these vehicles. Tom Lee Park in Memphis is named for a man who rescued people from these vehicles. Many of these vehicles like the Annie Faxon were destroyed because of the failure of fusible plugs. Robert Fulton and Robert Livingston owned one of these vehicles on the Hudson called the Clermont. Mark Twain's Life on the Mississippi documents, for the point, what type of boat?---Every Pentacost, people would sing songs that Francois-Joseph Gossec composed at the Champ de Mars for a festival this man invented. This man forced the arrest of Theresa Cabarrus and Cecile Renault hid two penknives in an attempt to kill him. This leader declared an end of the slave trade in the Declaration of the Rights of the Man and of the Citizen. Together with Louis de Saint-Just, this man radicalized the Committee of Public Safety. For the point, name this Jacobin politician who led the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution.---Two young royals were killed in this city after being invited for the “Black Dinner.” In this city, the hanging of a convicted smuggler led to a mob disturbance which resulted in the killing of John Porteous. The aforementioned hanging took place in the Grassmarket section of this city, which contains St. Giles’ Cathedral. This city’s Royal Mile connects to the Holyrood Palace, which was once inhabited by the wife of Lord Darnley. John Knox was ordained in this city, once ruled by Mary Stuart. For the point, name this capital city of Scotland.---Oguz-Bashi mountain was renamed for this man, who left Taoiseach [[TEE-shuk]] Albert Reynolds embarrassed after he appeared drunk at Shannon Airport. In a strange incident in Stockholm, this man compared Swedish meatballs to Bjorn Borg's face, and he was once found drunk in Washington D.C., trying to buy pizza in his underwear. Oleg Soskovets helped this man develop a strategy to win re-election in 1996. This man faced the Chechen War and returned the KAL 007 black box. For the point, name this first president of the Russian Federation, preceding Vladimir Putin.---This man co-authored a book with Alexis Carrel that focuses on keeping organs intact outside the body, and he was married to a daughter of Calvin Coolidge’s Ambassador to Mexico, Dwight Morrow. This man was the youngest and first man to appear on the cover of TIME magazine. Bruno Hauptmann demanded a ransom from this spokesman for the America First Committee after kidnapping his son. For the point, what aviator made history with the first solo transatlantic flight in his plane, The Spirit of St. Louis?---A major rebel leader in this country is often referred to as Penguin. This country’s UDD, which are alternatively called the Red Shirts, opposed a coup in 2006 that toppled a telecommunications magnate who led it. The People’s Alliance of Democracy was founded in this country, where prison sentences of up to fifteen years can be leveled upon those who insult its monarch. In 2016, the tenth Chakri monarch, Rama X [["the tenth"]], took the throne of this country. For the point, name this southeast Asian country, the only one to ally with Japan during World War Two.---A soldier who founded a major party in this country gained the nickname “Blowtorch Bob” for his use of blowtorches in interrogations. Over 30,000 people were killed in this country during La Matanza. The Chapultepec Peace Accords ended a twelve- year civil war in this country, which contains the ARENA and FMLN parties. In 1970, riots during a World Cup qualifier led to the Soccer War between this country and Honduras. For the point, name this Central American country east of Guatemala.---William Henry Hunt was appointed Secretary of the Navy by this president, who called for the abandonment of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty. Morrison Waite was made Chief Justice under this president, who appointed William Robertson as Collector of the Port of New York. During an earlier man’s presidency, this man refused ten shares offered by Oakes Ames during the Credit Mobilier Scandal. The death of this man prompted the passage of the Pendleton Civil Service Act under his successor. For the point, name this president who was assassinated in 1881 by Charles Guiteau.---At the Faculty of Cologne, Heinrich Kramer wrote a book about these people, Malleus Maleficarum [[mah-leh-FEE-cah-RUM]] after being rebuffed by peasant woman Helena Scheuberin [[SHOO-bare-in]]. Cotton Mather defended his actions during 1692 colonial trials concerning these people in his pamphlet, Wonders of the Invisible World. For the point, name these supposed supernatural people who were executed in various manners during trials in Salem, Massachusetts.---While taking a break from this activity in a Middle English poem, a peasant named Piers sees multiple visions of Malvern Hill, including one in which he jousts Jesus. A man in this occupation named Pahom drops dead after taking a bet with the devil in Tolstoy's "How Much Land does a Man Need?" Wang Lung begins The Good Earth as poor Chinese peasants in this profession. The human Mr. Jones is in, for the point, what profession in an Orwell story featuring animals like Old Major and Napoleon?---A Lotus chalice and meteoric iron dagger were found in this location. This location has a depiction of the "Opening of the Mouth Ceremony" with Ay, the predecessor to this location's dedicatee, depicted. Hussein Abdel-Rassoul found a stairway into this location, which Evelyn Herbert visited. Before entering this location with Arthur Callender, an archaeologist said he saw "Wonderful things!" Lord Carnarvon died of blood poisoning after entering this location, prompting fears of a curse. Found by Howard Carter, for the point, what is this resting place for an Egyptian boy-pharaoh in the Valley of the Kings?---A nabob is a European man who rapidly made his fortune by working with this private organization, whose influence led to the trial of their Governor-General Warren Hastings. One of this company's agents named John Zephaniah Holwell wrote an exaggerated account of the imprisonment of soldiers by the Nawab of Bengal in the Black Hole of Calcutta. The Sepoy Mutiny led the government of Great Britain to absorb, for the point, what joint-stock company which controlled much of the Indian subcontinent?---During this war, the Caravan War was initiated as part of Operation Curtain and carried about by one side's spetsnaz special forces. A third of the world boycotted the 1980 Moscow Olympics due to the host propping up a government led by Babrak Karmal in this conflict. The CIA supported the mujahedeen in their fight during, for the point, what nine year war which partially caused the collapse of the Soviet Union in the late 1980s?---Helen Keller’s letter against this campaign claimed that certain ideas “passed through millions of channels and will go on.” An Institute for Sex Research was targeted in this campaign, which was facilitated by the publication of the Twelve Theses, named in of honor of Martin Luther’s similar action involving a papal bull. The term "Säuberung" [ZOY- bare-ung]] or “cleansing” was used to describe this event, which targeted works of such authors as Hesse, Einstein, and Marx. For the point, name this mass destruction of texts by students loyal to Adolf Hitler.---One woman in this city proved her chastity by dragging a large statue of the Great Mother goddess the length of a river. Worshippers in this city threw beans over their shoulders to pacify lemuria ghosts. The Flamen Dialis historically oversaw the sacrifices associated with this city's Lupercalia [["LOOPER"-kal-ee-ah]] festival. Ovid's Metamorphoses ends with the rise of one of this city' rulers to power. This city was founded by a pair of twins who were raised by a she-wolf. For the point, name this city, which once was the center of the worship of Jupiter.---Chanakya describes women known as Visha Kanya who used this method to kill political opponents during the era of Chandragupta. First employed as an expert in this field by Agrippina the Younger, a woman named Locusta likely used this method to kill both Claudius and Britannicus to pave the way for Nero's accession. Ancient Egyptians used antimony, arsenic and lead as primary ingredients in make these concoctions. For the point, name these potent chemicals like cyanide used to end one's own or another person's life.---A treatise on this discipline, which begins with the death of Emperor Gratian, has a chapter concerning the layout of temporary settlements known as castrum. In another work in this discipline, the Emperor Maurice outlined an early description of "Combined Arms" while writing on the uses of the Tagma. According to a 6th century BCE theorist, all of [this discipline] "is based on deception." Works like Strategikon and another by Sun Tzu describe, for the point, what discipline concerning violent, organized conflicts between entities?---At his trial, this man said that the voice of God sent him on a mission to kill, but he pleaded not guilty on grounds of diminished responsibility. During investigations into this man's crimes, he was interviewed nine times by police before being arrested, leading to the Byford Report criticizing police procedures. This man was convicted of thirteen murders and, while imprisoned in England, began using the name Peter William Coonan. For the point, name this serial killer, dubbed the Yorkshire Ripper by the British press.---This man relied on Vivant Denon [[vee-VANH dee-NONH]] to curate his art collection due to his nearsightedness. Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres [[ANGHR]] depicted this leader On His Imperial Throne holding two scepters and wearing a golden laurel wreath. After ordering his troops to take artifacts from Egypt, this leader installed them at the Louvre, which was at the time named after him. For the point, name this French leader, who was depicted at the Saint-Bernard Pass by Jacques-Louis David as he was "Crossing the Alps."---This actress played Irene Hoffmann, a German woman who reluctantly testifies at the central tribunal in Judgment at Nuremberg. This woman starred alongside Fred Astaire in Easter Parade. The news of this woman’s 1969 overdose on sleeping pills was allegedly a contributing factor to the Stonewall Riots. The Smithsonian holds a pair of ruby slippers worn by this actress in a movie where she sings “Over the Rainbow.” For the point, name this star of The Wizard of Oz.---Mark Murray reported that this man claimed that the central object used in a 1998 event targeting him “wasn’t even that good.” Noel Godin carried out that attack against this man while he was on his way to speak with E.U. officials in Brussels. This man, who once had a pie thrown in his face, organized his best-known venture with Paul Allen. This businessman founded an organization containing a Global Development Division with his soon-to-be former wife Melinda. For the point, name this founder of Microsoft.---The most immediate action that brought about this event was organized by Wilhelm Souchon and involved the destruction of the minesweeper Prut. Sergey Sazonov’s refusal to acknowledge another side’s regrets over an attack on the gunboat Donetz instigated this event, which was further precipitated by the Bergmann Offensive. A battle during the Black Sea Raid at Odessa brought about this November 11, 1914 event, in which the central polity called for a jihad. For the point, name this event in which a major Muslim state entered a global conflict.---When offering a statement regarding his motive for this event, the perpetrator compared his stomach to that of a “drunk man.” Lilian Cross allegedly struck the perpetrator of this event in the hand. The only fatality in this event allegedly told its target, "I'm glad it was me, not you." Occurring after its target gave a speech at Bayfront Park in Miami, this event resulted in the death of Chicago mayor Anton Cermak. For the point, name this attempt by bricklayer Giuseppe Zangara to kill a New Deal president.---
Charles W(arren) Fairbanks---Maurice Ravel (or Joseph Maurice Ravel)---Rhee Syngman (or Syngman Rhee; prompt on "Syngman")---LaGuardia Airport (accept KLGA) ---Cao Cao (accept Cao Mengde; prompt on Cao alone)---Pericles---Milan (accept Milano)---Snail (accept Slug; accept Murax or Escargot before mentioned)---Jacobite Rising of 1745 (accept the Forty-Five Rebellion; accept Bliadhna Theàrlaich; accept The Year of Charles; prompt on "Jacobite" Rising alone) ---John Brown's raid on the U.S. arsenal at Harpers Ferry---Alberto Fujimori (or Alberto Kenya Fujimori Inomoto)---Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson (or Thomas Jonathan "Stonewall" Jackson---Tulip (accept Tulip Era; accept Tulip Mania)---Whaling (accept answers involving catching or hunting Whales; accept the collecting of Whale Oil) ---Steamboat(s) (or Steamers; accept Paddle Steamer; accept Screw Steamer)---Maximilien Robespierre (or Maximilien François Marie Isidore de Robespierre)---Edinburgh---Boris Yeltsin (or Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin)---Charles Lindbergh (or Charles Augustus Lindbergh) ---Kingdom of Thailand (accept Ratcha-anachak Thai; prompt on "Siam")---Republic of El Salvador (accept República de El Salvador)---James A(bram) Garfield---Witch (accept male equivalents like Warlock or Wizard; accept more general answers like Magician) ---Farming (or Farmer; accept Plowing; or Plowman; accept Agriculture; prompt on "Peasant")---KV62 (accept King Tutankhamun's Tomb; prompt on similar answers to tomb such as "burial place")---British East India Company (accept British EIC; accept Honourable East India Company; accept English East India Company; accept John Company; accept Company Bahadur; do not accept or prompt on "Dutch East India")---Soviet–Afghan War (accept Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan) ---Nazi Book Burnings (accept Deutsche Studentenschaft or DSt)---Rome (accept Roma)---Poisons (accept Toxicology; prompt on more general answers like "Assassination")---Warfare (accept Military Science; accept answers including Military Strategy before mentioned) ---Peter Sutcliffe (or Peter William Sutcliffe; accept Yorkshire Ripper before mentioned; accept Peter William Coonan before mentioned)---Napoleon Bonaparte (accept Napoleon I)---Judy Garland (or Frances Ethel Gumm)---Bill Gates (or William Henry "Bill" Gates III) ---Ottoman Empire’s entry into World War One (accept Russia declaring war on the Ottoman Empire during World War One; prompt on partial answer; prompt on answers involving “Turkey” instead of “Ottoman” Empire; accept clear knowledge equivalents in place of “entry”)---Attempted assassination of Franklin Delano Roosevelt (accept FDR in place of Franklin Delano Roosevelt; accept clear knowledge equivalents; do not accept or prompt on answers indicating a successful assassination)---