A---False---2
An 1874 courthouse riot in this country was led by Hulu, the leader of the Emmaites faction of Queen Emma. George Anson Byron, the cousin of Lord Byron, delivered two monarchs back to this country before mapping Rabbit Island. A land redistribution scheme in this country was called the Great Māhele [[mah-HAY-lay]] and resulted in much of the land being owned by the Big Five sugar companies. The Bayonet Constitution was forced upon this country's last king, David Kalakaua. For the point, name this Pacific kingdom which became the 50th U.S. state.---This man was arrested at an airport under the name Ramon George Sneyd [[SNEED]] while trying to depart the United Kingdom for Rhodesia, having already spent a month hiding out in Toronto. This man promoted the conspiracy theory that he had an assistant named "Raul" [[RAH-ool]] and claimed that once Alabama Governor George Wallace was elected president, he would be pardoned. A 99-year prison sentence was given to, for the point, which man, who fired a shot at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, killing Martin Luther King Jr?---One site of this civilization, Dholavira, is located in the salt marsh of Kutch. A soapstone statue known as The King-Priest was located at one of this civilization's sites, which includes the earliest known public water tank in history, the Great Bath. Mortimer Wheeler mistakenly theorized that this civilization, which likely spoke a Dravidian language, was wiped out by an "Aryan" invasion. For the point, name this Bronze Age civilization with cities such as Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa, based on a namesake river.---This man was sued by Thomas Zaremba in a case that rejected the concept of palimony in Texas. Irl Allison established a contest named for this man in Fort Worth. A Time magazine cover proclaimed this man "The Texan Who Conquered Russia" following a performance that included Rachmaninoff's third piano concerto. For the point, name this American pianist who won a stunning upset in the 1958 International Tchaikovsky Competition.---Alberto Korda took photograph of this man, a trained doctor, who responded to the disaster at a memorial service for the La Coubre explosion. This man described the need to rid his continent of the "Yankee-Friend" and how he met a Communist miner in his memoir The Motorcycle Diaries. After attempting to start a revolution in Bolivia, this man was killed with help from the CIA in 1967. For the point, name this Marxist revolutionary who was integral to the Cuban Revolution.---A group indigenous to this island plays a grouped kettle gong instrument called the talempong and performs a form of theater called randai. The lava dome of Sinabung collapsed and emitted a five-kilometer ash plume on this island in 2021. The Minangkabau originate from this island, whose Deli Serdang area surrounds the large city of Medan. The northern portion of this island, home to an intermittent insurgency against central government rule, is Aceh [[AH-chay]]. The Srivijaya Empire was ruled from Palembang on, for the point, what western Indonesian island?---While fighting the Ottomans, Michael the Brave unified the three principalities which would form this country, and centuries later in 1859, Alexandru Cuza united a "Danubian" pair of them. After fighting Bulgaria in World War One, this country was awarded land from Hungary, but lost it in the Second Vienna Award after an uprising by Horia Sima's Iron Guard. For the point, name this country that united from Moldavia, Wallachia, and Transylvania and was an Axis member during World War Two under Ion Antonescu [[EE-ohn ah-toh-NEH- skoo]].---The medieval Malla family created the Khasa Kingdom in this modern-day nation. This country's forces dealt major losses to British forces at Nalapani before signing the Treaty of Sugauli. In this nation, Crown Prince Dipendra [[dee-PEHN-drah]] orchestrated a 2001 massacre of ten members of the House of Gorkha, including his father and mother. Edmund Hillary summited Mount Everest with Tenzing Norgay, a Sherpa from, for the point, which mountainous South Asian country?---One leader of this name feuded with his ally Valerius Flaccus [[FLAH-kus]] over the Oppian Law. Another leader of this name pioneered the use of the filibuster to force his rivals to choose between a triumph or a consulship. That leader of this name committed suicide at Utica [["you"-TEE-kah]] after the collapse of the Optimates [[op-tee-MAH-tehs]]. For the point, give this name shared by a “Younger” who opposed Julius Caesar and an “Elder” who ended all of his speeches with “Carthago Delenda Est”, or “Carthage must be destroyed!”---This president unsuccessfully tried to end the spoils system by appointing the German reformer Carl Schurz. Paraguay named a department of their country after this president for resolving a dispute over the Gran Chaco region in their favor. This president sent in federal troops after the Reading [[RED-ding]] Railroad Massacre. A commission gave twenty disputed electoral votes to this president, allowing him to defeat Samuel Tilden, despite losing the popular vote. For the point, name this president who ended Reconstruction with the Compromise of 1877.---One king of this name died fighting the Battle of Sauchieburn [[soh-CHEE-burn]] against his son, another king of this name. The massive cannon Mons Meg was given as a gift to the second king of this name. A king of this name died while trying to invade a southern neighbor at the Battle of Flodden Field, and the last independent king of this name succeeded to the English throne on the death of Queen Elizabeth. For the point, give this name of six kings of Scotland and the first Stuart king of England.---In this city, a 16th-century priest put a statue of the Virgin Mary on trial for witchcraft and later burned it at the stake. The Imperial Russian army safely retreated from this city during the Battle of Jugla [[YOOG-luh]] after losing control of the Daugava waterway to the German Empire. This city, a historical archbishopric allied to the Livonian Order, was led by the first independent government in half a century by Ivars Godmanis. The Singing Revolution began in protest of Soviet construction in, for the point, what Latvian capital city?---The provision of this good was studied by the Romanow commission, whose recommendations included several upgrades to the Infoway system that digitizes aspects of this good. In 1964, the Hall Commission advocated that all provinces adopt the model for delivering this good that was implemented in Saskatchewan under Tommy Douglas's government. For the point, name this service which, since a 1968 bill, has been provided in Canada on a provincial single-payer basis.---This man's lawsuit was sponsored by the Blow family and argued before the Supreme Court by Montgomery Blair. This man's filing pointed out his four-year residence in the state of Illinois and the Wisconsin territory. Roger Taney's [[TAH-nees]] ruling in this man's case found an absence of "rights which the white man was bound to respect." For the point, name this plaintiff in an 1857 Supreme Court case against John Sanford that ended in a strongly pro-slavery decision.---A blue-grey wolf and a fallow doe legendarily birthed these people's first ancestor, Batachiqan [[bah-TAH-chee-CAHN]], along the Onan River. A princess of these people named Khutulun [[KOO-tah-loon]] supposedly earned over 10,000 horses from her suitors after defeating them in wrestling competitions, inspiring the myth of Turandot [[too-rahn-DOH]]. These people syncretized the Turkic sky god Tengri with Buddhist beliefs into a type of shamanism. For the point, name these people of the Asian steppes who included Kublai and Genghis Khan.---This period was partially fueled by students of William Tennent at the Log College. Richard Bushman claims that the divide between the "Old Lights" and "New Lights" in this period led to political factionalism in Connecticut. In an oration from this period, the speaker compares the salvation of man to holding a spider over a fire. Jonathan Edwards gave his "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God" sermon during, for the point, what period of religious revival in the 1730s and 40s?---Prior to his involvement with Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show, this man gave Annie Oakley the nickname "Little Sure Shot" and symbolically adopted her as his daughter. This man was killed during his attempted arrest by Indian Service agent James McLaughlin [[mahk-LOF-lihn]], and this man’s body was later exhumed in the 1950s by his family. For the point, name this Hunkpapa [[hoonk-PAH-pah]] Lakota leader who led the confederation of Indian tribes which triumphed at the Battle of Little Bighorn.---The second holder of this position appointed a commission that published A Nation at Risk, which suggested the U.S. was threatened by a "rising tide of mediocrity." That man, Terrel Bell, succeeded the first holder of this position, Carter appointee Shirley Hufstedler. In this position, William Bennett published a report assessing the teaching and learning of the humanities at the baccalaureate [[bah-kah-LOH-ree-eht]] level. For the point, name this Cabinet-level position that oversees schooling in the United States.---FDR's attorney-general-elect Thomas J. Walsh represented this state, as did a politician who introduced the eventual nineteenth amendment into Congress. That politician once stated “I cannot vote for war.” The pacifist Jeanette Rankin hailed from this state as did a man who became Senator Majority Leader following Lyndon B. Johnson’s ascent to the vice presidency. Mike Mansfield hails from, for the point, what state, governed from Helena?---Philosopher Jürgen [[YUHR-gehn]] Habermas served as a member of this organization at the behest of his conservative father in the early 20th century. Artur Axmann led this organization, whose ranks filled out several armies during the battles of Seelow Heights. Hitler's last act outside of the Führerbunker was awarding Iron Crosses to 16 year old members of this organization. The League of German Girls acted as the female equivalent of, for the point, which Nazi organized children's organization?---This composer was commissioned to write a piece for a Red Cross benefit concert commemorating his country’s intervention in the Serbo-Turkish War. Another piece about a battle by this composer begins by quoting the hymn “O Lord, Save Thy People.” That piece by this composer quotes “La Marseillaise” to symbolize Napoleon’s invading army and culminates with sixteen cannon blasts. For the point, identify this Russian composer of Marche Slave [[marsh-SLAHV]] and the 1812 Overture.---In retaliation for this country deploying mines, the U.S. organized Operations Nimble Archer and Praying Mantis to target this country's oil platforms. During a war between this country and its western neighbor, Henry Kissinger wondered if "they both can't lose." The USS Vincennes [[VIHN-sehns]] shot down a passenger jet from this country, which was the source of funds used to evade the Boland Amendment elsewhere. For the point, name this country that was the central nation in the scandalous "Contra Affair" of the Reagan and Bush era.---Early Protestant reformer John Wycliff used this term while describing the residence of the Biblical Levite tribe in his work Trialogus. Levitt & Sons built one of the first examples of these communities in Long Island, New York to service World War Two veterans returning from service. First coined by Cicero to describe large villas on the outskirt of Rome, for the point, what term describes developed commercial and residential areas immediately outside of a city?---A New York community named for this historical city was a farming colony for free African-Americans due to it being on highly arable land. Joseph Joffree's late 19th century conquest of this city led to its coverage in western media by Felix Dubois [[doo-BWAH]], who claimed it had "unimpressive buildings" outside of the University of Sankore. While searching for the source of the Niger, Alexander Gordon Laing was the first European to reach this city, but was killed weeks later by Tuareg raiders. The capital of the medieval Mali Empire was, for the point, which city?---This dynasty successfully resolved the Ili [[EE-lee]] crisis by negotiating the Treaty of St. Petersburg with Russia. The Self-Strengthening Movement was pushed by this dynasty following the burning of the Old Summer Palace. A commissioner under this dynasty, Lin Zexu [[ZEH-SHOO]] , issued a letter to Queen Victoria condemning the opium trade. Near the end of this dynasty, "dowager empress" Cixi [[SEE-SHE]] held effective power. For the point, name this final imperial dynasty of China.---Near the start of a visit to this place, the narrator meets Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta, two nobles from Ravenna whose affair and deaths inspired "the Kiss" art motif. Jason, Caiaphas, and Pope Nicholas III all appear in the Malebolge location in this place, before Virgil guides the narrator to Brutus, Judas, and Lucifer at its lowest levels. For the point, name this place visited in the first third of the Divine Comedy by Dante.---Members of the 18th-century European aristocracy participated in a sport involving tossing these animals while dressed up as heroes from Greco-Roman myth. It's not weasels, but a Norman king with a nickname derived from this animal conquered much of southern Italy and the island of Sicily in the 11th century. Francis Marion was dubbed the "Swamp" [this animal] during the American Revolution, and Erwin Rommel was called the "Desert" [this animal]. For the point, identify this canid that often provides a nickname to wily historical figures.---This modern U.S. state passed the first set of Animal Protection Laws in their namesake "Body of Liberties." Charles II declared this future state's Hull Mint, founded by a member of its Quincy merchant family, illegitimate after it made coins of local figures. This state's governor, James Bowdoin [[BOH-duhn]], encouraged John Adams to author the Riot Act, allowing the government to suspend habeus corpus during Shays' Rebellion in its western region. For the point, name this New England state which experienced the Boston Massacre.---Islamic rituals such as prayer five times a day were mixed with Buddhist idolatry in this nation's minority faith, Hoa Hao [[HWA HAW]]. Figures like novelist Victor Hugo and Saint Joan of Arc are worshipped in this nation's Cao Dai [["cow die"]] faith. Records show that 10th century Nestorians spread Christianity to this country while it was called "Annam." The Lunar New Year Tết Nguyên Đán [[TET WEN DAHN]] is traditionally celebrated in, for the point, what Southeast Asian nation's city of Hanoi?---One of these vehicles sank off the coast of Scotland after a sailor on board failed to use its toilet mechanism properly, causing a leak that came in contact with its lithium battery. Shortly after sinking four barges off the coast of Orleans, these ships bombarded that New Jersey town before two U.S. Navy planes caused them to retreat. The First and Second "Happy Times" occurred due to these vessels' highly successful operations against merchant shipping in 1940 to 1942. For the point, name this type of German naval vessel that conducted unrestricted submarine warfare in the First and Second World Wars.---This currency was used to pay out dual-currency debt instruments denominated in dollars known as tesobonos. A 50 billion dollar IMF bailout followed the December 1994 collapse of this currency. Confidence in this currency was lowered by the assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio and the intensifying Zapatista uprising in Chiapas. The devaluation of this currency became known as the Tequila Crisis. Established officially in 1821 by the First Empire, for the point, what is this Mexican currency?---This monarch commissioned the "Frog Service" from Josiah Wedgewood. The Yaik Cossacks rebelled against this monarch under the leadership of Yemelyan Pugachev [[yeh- mehl-YAHN poo-gah-CHOFF]]. This monarch signed the Treaty of Jassy [[YAH-see]] with the Ottoman Empire, which was negotiated by the founder of Sevastopol and the Black Sea Fleet, Grigori Potemkin. This widow of Peter III corresponded with Denis Diderot as an "enlightened despot." For the point, name this empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796.---A test of this effect accelerated canal rays through perforated plates with an immense charge. The question of whether this effect in light is partially caused by relativistic time dilation was addressed in the Ives-Stillwell experiment in 1938. This effect was first observed in an 1842 report on the color of binary stars. In astronomy, this effect can cause "redshift" or "blueshift." Discovered in 1842 and named for an Austrian physicist, for the point, what is this effect of a wave's frequency changing with movement relative to an observer, often exemplified by ambulance sirens?---In this film, after several members of the Highlanders Regiment seek refuge in a beached trawler, they are almost drowned when an enemy uses the vessel for target practice. The Moonstone rescues several people from a sunken minesweeper in this film, as well as the pilot Collins, played by Jack Lowden. Tom Hardy's character sets fire to his Spitfire before being captured by the Germans at the end of this film, which depicts Operation Dynamo. For the point, name this 2017 Christopher Nolan about the Allied evacuation from a namesake French port during World War Two.---France withdrew its diplomat Philippe Étienne [[EH-tee-ehn]] from the U.S. following this man's administration's sale of nuclear-powered submarines to Australia. A sticker of a politician saying "I Did That" next to the gas pump display went viral following grassroots Republican support. Americans received fourteen hundred dollar checks following this president's signing of the American Rescue Plan Act. Kamala Harris serves as the vice president of, for the point, which U.S. president since 2021?---During this period, the development of hanafuda playing cards resulted from the ban of Portuguese cards and gambling generally. The Satsuma Rebellion motivated the government during this period to pass the Keiō [[keh-EE-oh]] Reforms, a set of westernization policies which failed to prevent the Meiji Restoration. The term "Edo Period" is sometimes used to describe, for the point, which period of isolationism in Japan from the 17th to the 19th century?---
Hawai'i (accept Kingdom of Hawai'i; or Aupuni Mōʻī o Hawaiʻi; accept Republic of Hawai'i; accept Territory of Hawai'i)---James Earl Ray---Indus Valley Civilization (accept Indus River Valley Civilization; accept Harappan Civilization before mentioned)---Van Cliburn (or Harvey Lavan Cliburn, Jr.) ---Ernesto "Che" Guevara (prompt on "Che")---Sumatra---Romania (accept Kingdom of Romania or Regatul României; prompt on "National Legionary State")---Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal (accept Saṅghīya Loktāntrik Gaṇatantra Nepāl; NOTE: Tenzing Norgay's birthplace is disputed; he may have been born in Tibet and later moved to Nepal; both his parents were Tibetan) ---Cato (accept Marcus Porcius Cato; or Cato the Elder; or Cato Censorius; accept Cato the Younger; or Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis; or Cato of Utica)---Rutherford B. Hayes (or Rutherford Birchard Hayes)---James (accept James III; accept James II; accept James I of England; or James VI of Scotland)---Riga ---Healthcare (accept Canadian Medicare or medical care or other terms referring to general medical services)---Dred Scott (accept Dred Scott v. Sanford)---Mongolians (or Mongols; accept Mongolchuud)---First Great Awakening (prompt on "Great Awakening")---Sitting Bull (accept Tȟatȟáŋka Íyotake) ---Secretary of Education (accept Education Secretary)---Montana---Hitler Youth (accept Hitlerjugend; accept Deutsches Jungvolk)---Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky [[chy-KOF-skee]]---Islamic Republic of Iran (or Jomhuri-ye Eslāmi-ye Irān; prompt on "Persia") ---Suburbs (accept Suburbia; or Suburban area)---Timbuktu (accept Timbuctoo; or Tombouctou; or Tin Buqt; or Tumbutu)---Qing [[CHING]] Dynasty (accept Great Qing; or Dà Qīng; accept Manchu [[MAHN-CHOO]] Dynasty)---Hell (or Inferno) ---Foxes (or Vulpes; accept Fox tossing; or Fuchsprellen; accept Robert the Fox; accept Swamp Fox; accept Desert Fox)---Massachusetts (accept Massachusetts Body of Liberties)---Vietnam (accept Socialist Republic of Vietnam; accept Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam)---U-Boats (accept Unterseeboot; prompt on “Submarine” before mentioned) ---(Mexican) Peso---Catherine the Great (or Catherine II; or Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst; prompt on "Catherine")---Doppler effect (accept transverse Doppler effect)---Dunkirk ---Joe Biden (or Joseph Robinette Biden Jr.) ---Tokugawa Shogunate (accept Edo Period before mentioned)---