A---False---23
The city of Ravenna hid one of these things, belonging to Dante, behind a false wall when Florentine agents tried to steal it. One of these objects was smuggled to Venice in a crate of rotting pork and cabbages from Alexandria. In an 897 synod, Pope Stephen VI put one of these objects, belonging to Pope Formosus, on trial. Another of these objects, belonging to Vladimir Lenin, remains on display in Moscow in his mausoleum. For the point, name these things, which are usually placed in graves.---A member of this Native American tribe, Stand Watie, led an attack on the supply ship J.R. Williams. Major Ridge was part of a triumvirate of leaders of this tribe and was among the signatories of the Treaty of New Echota, which provided for this tribe’s westward migration. A syllabary for this tribe’s language was developed by Sequoyah. For the point, name this one of the “Five Civilized Tribes” that settled in the Oklahoma Territory after being forced westward in the Trail of Tears.---This man served as the personal herbarium curator and physician for George Cliﬀord III, a director of the Dutch East India Company. This scientist ﬂipped the Celsius scale so that 0 is freezing and 100 is boiling, and he divided humans into four geographical categories, including Europaeus and Afer. This scientist wrote Philosophia Botanica while working at Uppsala University, and his Systema Naturae introduced binomial nomenclature. For the point, name this Swedish scientist who developed modern taxonomy.---This dynasty raised the Huai army to defeat a rebellion when its Green Standard armies proved ineﬀective. This dynasty tried to reform through the Self-Strengthening Movement. A man claiming to be the brother of Jesus, Hong Xiuquan [shiu-chwan], led a rebellion against this dynasty from his capital of [see-shee], to provide reparations after attacks Nanjing. The Eight-Nation Alliance forced its ruler, Cixi on Westerners in Beijing. For the point, name this dynasty that faced the Taiping and Boxer rebellions, the last imperial dynasty to rule China.---Most knowledge about this battle is derived from the Mozarabic Chronicle. One side in this battle had been called to aid Odo the Great after he had suﬀered heavy losses at Toulouse and Bordeaux. This battle was lost by an unsuccessful uphill cavalry charge ordered by Abd ar-Rahman, and the winner of this battle was granted the nickname “the hammer.” For the point, name this battle in which Charles Martel halted the Muslim invasion of Western Europe. Tours (or Battle of Poitiers)---In January 2016, this action failed to occur for the 7th time in history, due to a failure to identify Little Rock, Arkansas. In 2016, a prize for this action was donated to the Cancer Research Institute after Cindy Stowell did it 6 times while suﬀering from Stage 4 cancer; sadly, Stowell passed away before her performances of this action aired on syndicated TV. A 2003 rule change allows one to perform this action more than ﬁve times in a row, a change that greatly beneﬁted Ken Jennings. For the point, name this action, a triumph on a game show hosted by Alex Trebek.---This artist attributed his sense of rhythm while painting to his teacher, Thomas Hart Benton. Hans Namuth photographed this reclusive artist painting in his style of gesturalism, which was shared by his rival Willem de Kooning. This artist occasionally used shards of glass to texture his paintings, most of which are numbered. For the point, name this American painter of Lavender Mist and Autumn Rhythm, nicknamed “the Dripper” for his splattered action paintings.---This country paid families in the U.S. $80,000 as negotiated by Caleb Cushing, after troops from this country executed people on board the Virginius. The unknown source of the Arkansas River shifted a boundary that had been deﬁned in an 1819 treaty between the U.S. and this country; that treaty was negotiated by John Quincy Adams and Luis de Onis. For the point, name this European country that fought an 1898 war against the U.S. after the explosion of the Maine.---This city was the western terminus of the Khorasan Road and was situated just north of Ctesiphon. This city, the site of the Translation Movement, was founded by al-Mansur after his brother’s victory at the Battle of Zab. Harun al-Rashid constructed the House of Wisdom in this city, which was brutally sacked by Hulagu Khan as the Tigris ran black with ink and red with blood. For the point, name this center of Islamic learning and culture, the capital of both the Abbasid Caliphate and modern Iraq.---This man argued that space and time were means for a subject to organize the world using his “transcendental aesthetic.” The importance of justifying knowledge claims was pointed out to this philosopher by David Hume’s work, which this philosopher says “woke him from his dogmatic slumber.” In his most famous work, this man questioned the existence of synthetic a priori truths. For the point, name this German philosopher who developed the categorical imperative and wrote the Critique of Pure Reason. Kant---This general was victorious against Onomarchus at Crocus Field, one of the bloodiest battles in ancient history. A stray vine prevented the escape of this man’s assassin, Pausanias. This man was given the one-word reply “If” after issuing a series of threats to Sparta. This man created the League of Corinth to oppose Persia shortly after he defeated Thebes’ Sacred Band at Chaeronea. For the point, name this Macedonian ruler and father of Alexander the Great.---The “K1C2” strategy was employed by this Presidential candidate during his ﬁrst election campaign, after which he stepped down as President of Columbia University. This man’s Cabinet was informally dubbed “eight millionaires and a plumber.” This man’s eventual running mate saved his own political career with the “Checkers” speech. This ﬁrst Supreme Commander of NATO ran with Richard Nixon in 1952 using the slogan “We like Ike.” For the point, name this Allied general during World War II who succeeded Harry Truman as President.---One of this man’s operas, originally based on the assassination of Gustav III of Sweden, had its location changed to colonial Boston by the censors. This composer of Un ballo in maschera wrote a grand opera based on the life of Don Carlos. “Va, pensiero” or “Chorus of Hebrew Slaves” from this man’s opera Nabucco became a popular anthem for the Risorgimento. For the point, name this Italian opera composer who included the “Anvil Chorus” in his Il Trovatore and composed Aida.---The Russian Empire helped foment this conﬂict by sponsoring the Orlov Revolt. The London Protocol ended this conﬂict shortly after Edward Codrington outmaneuvered Ibrahim Pasha at the Battle of Navarino. Alexander Ypsilantis led one side in this conﬂict, which was depicted by Eug`ene Delacroix in his Massacre at Chios and Ruins of Missolonghi. Lord Byron died ﬁghting in, for the point, what 1820s war in which the First Hellenic Republic broke away from the Ottoman Empire?---Forces from this European country were defeated by the Travancore Kingdom in the Battle of Colachel. This European power harassed enemy colonies in a policy whose name translates as the “Grand Design.” The Amboyna Massacre was perpetrated by an organization based in this country whose emblem was the initials VOC. This country established the colony of Batavia, which later gained independence as part of Indonesia. For the point, name this home country of the ﬁrst East India Company. Netherlands (or Holland; accept the Dutch East India Company)---In the wake of one of these events, Joseph Hazelwood was found guilty of only a misdemeanor. Counteracting these events often requires large quantities of Corexit. In 2015, a company settled for more than $18 billion for their negligence in causing this type of event. One of these events took place in Prince William Sound in 1989 after the Exxon Valdez ran aground. The explosion on the BP rig Deepwater Horizon caused, for the point, what type of ecological disaster? oil spill (accept Exxon Valdez oil spill before read; accept Deepwater Horizon oil spill---The ﬁrst federally funded housing initiative in this city created the community of First Houses, and this city pioneered the use of “Dumbbell” housing. The George Bellows painting Cliﬀ Dwellers depicts tenement dwellers in this city’s Lower East Side, and an 1890 book of muckraking photojournalism by Jacob Riis exposed conditions in this city’s tenements. How the Other Half Lives described conditions in, for the point, which city that processed immigrants at Ellis Island?---The second epistle to Timothy identiﬁes this ﬁgure’s enemies as Jannes and Jambres. This man once asked for his name to be blotted out from the Book of Life. His older sister was struck with leprosy for criticizing this man’s wife, whom he ﬁrst met after rescuing her from some heckling shepherds at a well. At Meribah, this man displeased God by striking a rock in anger. For the point, name this author of the Torah who led the Israelites out of Egypt.---During a rebellion against this ruler, a gale prevented Henry Staﬀord from importing troops from Brittany. This ruler allegedly ordered James Tyrell to murder Edward V and Richard of Shrewsbury, the “princes in the tower.” In 2012, the body of this king was found in a Leicester parking space. The betrayal of the Stanley family led to this king’s defeat to Henry VII at the Battle of Bosworth Field, marking the beginning of the Tudor dynasty. For the point, name this ﬁnal king of the house of York.---This man’s daughter died aboard the schooner Patriot during the War of 1812 and was married to the then-Governor of South Carolina. This man was behind the Tammany Society’s initial transition from a social organization to a political machine, and he presided over the impeachment of Samuel Chase as Vice President. James Wilkinson betrayed this man’s conspiracy to President Thomas Jeﬀerson, who ordered this man arrested in 1807 for treason. For the point, name this Revolutionary War oﬃcer and politician who killed Alexander Hamilton in an 1804 duel.---This king is the subject of a mostly-lost epic poem set at Paderborn. This ruler was unable to secure the submission of the Duchy of Benevento when he subjugated the Lombard kingdom. Alcuin was a notable philosopher during this man’s reign, which was chronicled by his biographer Einhard. His defeat at Roncevaux Pass inspired the Song of Roland. For the point, name this Carolingian king who was crowned by Leo III on Christmas Day 800 as the ﬁrst Holy Roman Emperor. Charlemagne (accept Charles the Great, Karl der Grosse, or Carolus Magnus)---This man advised Auda ibu Tayi during the Battle of Aqaba and led guerrilla attacks on the Hejaz Railway. This man described his experiences, including his victory at the Battle of Taﬁleh that earned him a Distinguished Cross, in Seven Pillars of Wisdom. This man’s promises of an Arab homeland were violated by the Sykes-Picot Treaty. For the point, name this British soldier who fought the Ottoman Empire in the Middle East during World War I. Lawrence (or Lawrence of Arabia)---A week after this man criticized his political party, the Declaration of 46 letter agreed with his concerns. This man wrote “The Revolution Betrayed” while living in exile with Diego Rivera. As Commissar of Foreign Aﬀairs, this man handed the Baltic States to Kaiser Wilhelm II by signing the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. Years after he founded the Red Army, this man was killed in Mexico by an ice pick to the head. For the point, name this Soviet politician who lost a power struggle with Joseph Stalin.---This man was the primary early backer of the failed Simpliﬁed Spelling Board project. A partner of this man, Henry Clay Frick, formed the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. This man temporarily became the richest American after selling his company to J.P. Morgan in 1901. The Homestead strike was directed against his Pennsylvania plant. For the point, name this Scotsman, the author of the essay “The Gospel of Wealth” and namesake of a powerful American steel company.---This city faced the revolt of Spendius and Mathos over unpaid soldier salaries in the Mercenary War. A commander from this city had his head thrown into the tent of his brother after the Battle of the Metaurus River. Salt was sown into the ground of this city so that it could never rebuild after its destruction, which was advocated by Cato the Elder. For the point, name this African city, led in the Punic Wars by Hannibal Barca.---This man believed Nebraska brought forth a “sacred right” and placed “it on the high road to extension and perpetuity.” This man challenged those to “do our duty as we understand it” by having “faith that right makes might.” This orator of the Peoria Speech looked to “bind up the nation’s wounds” “with Malice toward none, with charity for all” in his Second Inaugural Address. For the point, name this president who claimed “that government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth” in his Gettysburg address.---This state is home to an early cotton mill established by Samuel Slater on the Blackstone River. A city in this state is home to the Naval War College and Bellevue Avenue contains, home to many Gilded Age “cottages,” like Cornelius Vanderbilt’s The Breakers. This state is home to Aquidneck Island in Narragansett Bay, as well as the city of Newport. For the point, name this state whose capital was founded by dissenter Roger Williams as the colony of Providence Plantations, the smallest state in the US. Rhode Island and Providence Plantations---This organization created a trust-building program with its former rivals called Partnership for Peace. It initiated the stay-behind Operation Gladio to prepare for an armed resistance. This organization’s mutual defense principle, Article 5, has only been invoked once, immediately following the 9/11 attacks. The Able Archer exercise nearly caused a war between the Warsaw Pact and, for the point, what alliance, founded in 1949 to ﬁght communism in Western Europe, that includes the U.S.? NATO (or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization)---This policy was protested by a women’s group known as the Black Sash. It was condemned by the Lusaka Manifesto and a Security Council arms embargo. This policy created enclaves of territory called bantustans. One aspect of this policy, the requirement for internal passports, was protested at the Sharpeville Massacre. F.W. de Klerk’s government helped end this policy through negotiations with the African National Congress. For the point, name this policy of racial segregation in South Africa.---This leader called for a crackdown on alternative forms of alcohol after over 60 people died by drinking bath essence containing methanol. A critic of this leader was mysteriously shot to death while crossing the Bolshoy Bridge; that man was Boris Nemtsov. US intelligence oﬃcials have accused this leader of being personally involved in November’s U.S. Presidential election. For the point, name this current President of Russia.---A non-presidential resident of this state named Harry Truman died when he refused to evacuate his home during a natural disaster. Pioneer Square in this state was the site of riots on Mardi Gras in 2001, just two years after riots on N30, or November 30th, rocked this state during a meeting of the World Trade Organization. For the 1962 World’s Fair, the largest city in this state constructed the Space Needle. For the point, name this state, the location of the Mount St. Helens eruption and the Battle in Seattle.---
dead bodies (accept cadavers and other obvious equivalents)---Cherokee---Carl Linnaeus---Qing [ching] Dynasty (or Manchu Dynasty; do not accept Qin [chin] dynasty)---Battle of Page 1 ---winning on Jeopardy! (accept descriptions thereof; do not accept or prompt on “playing on Jeopardy” or other non-winning descriptions)---Jackson Pollock---Spain---Baghdad---Immanuel Page 2 ---Philip II of Macedon---Dwight D. Eisenhower---Giuseppe Verdi---Greek War of Independence---the---after “2015” is read and before “Deepwater Horizon” is read) Page 3 ---New York City (or NYC)---Moses (or Moshe)---Richard III---Aaron Burr------Thomas Edward Page 4 ---Leon Trotsky---Andrew Carnegie---Carthage---Abraham Lincoln------Page 5 ---Apartheid (prompt on descriptive answers until the end of the question)---Vladimir Putin Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Washington Page 6---