A---True---28
After the founder of this group assassinated Constantine Manciu, the jury at his trial was obviously biased in his favor to the point of wearing swastikas at the trial. When this group was banned by the Vaida-Voevod government, it retaliated by assassinating Prime Minister Ion Duca at the Sinaia railway station. In 1935, this party changed its name to the “Everything for the Country” Party. Horia Sima led this group, which was alternately named the Legion of the Archangel Michael. Ion Antonescu shut down, for the point, what fascist movement in Romania?---A female warrior in this country was quoted as saying, “I’d like to ride storms, kill sharks in the open sea.” In this country, a “pole-and-tide” stratagem was employed to destroy enemy ships because when the tide ebbed, the ships would be penetrated by the poles. During a 1288 Mongol invasion of this country, Omar Khan was defeated at the Battle of Bach Dang River. The ﬁrst Chinese domination of this nation was resisted by Trac and Nhi, two of the Trung sisters. Under Tran Hung Dao, this country repelled three major invasions. For the point, name this country where the Nguyen Dynasty established a capital at Thang Long in what is now Hanoi.---This artist painted an ornate golden head on a sword hilt resting in the foreground in front of a square pillar decorated with this artist’s signature while a woman raises a hammer above a sleeping Canaanite. This painter of Jael and Sisera referred to Cesare Ripa’s Iconologia for a painting in which this artist wears a small mask on a chain and leans on a pigment grinding stone as a Self-Portrait as the Allegory of Painting. In another painting, she depicted two women struggling to kill a man who resembles this artist’s rapist. For the point, name this Italian Baroque painter of Judith Slaying Holofernes.---In the 14th century in what is now this state, hundreds of villagers of the Initial Coalescent people were killed in the Crow Creek massacre. In 1890, Samuel Whitside and James Forsyth led an attack on Spotted Elk’s men in this state; the next day, after a deaf man named Black Coyote didn’t give up his riﬂe, the 7th Cavalry carried out the Wounded Knee Massacre. The Pine Ridge Reservation is in, for the point, what US state where an 1870s gold rush led to attacks on the Sioux in the Black Hills? South Dakota---A major portage route sharing its name with this city was also called the Humber Portage and coincides with the modern Yonge Street. Fort Rouill´e was built in what is now this city, which was developed by John Graves Simcoe. A parliamentary mace stolen from this city was not returned until 1934 as a goodwill gesture; the mace was stolen during Zebulon Pike’s sacking of this city, which triggered the British burning of Washington, D.C. a year later. The British gave the name “York” to, for the point, what Canadian city, the capital of Ontario? Toronto---A Trast´amara queen with this name lost control of Castille via the Treaty of Alc´acovas; that woman’s husband lost a battle that was seen as retribution for Aljubarrota, the Battle of Toro. Another queen with this name was the mother of Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I and refused to bury her husband, Philip the Handsome, after his death in 1506. Archbishop Cisneros served as regent to a daughter of Isabella I with this name. For the point, give this name shared by a decidedly insane queen of Castille.---Li Shimin seized power in this dynasty during the Xuanwu Gate Incident. One of the Four Beauties of China, Yang Guifei, was blamed for a rebellion faced by this dynasty. This dynasty’s Xuanzong Emperor faced the rival Yan Dynasty in the An Lushan Rebellion, and it beat the Abbasids at the Battle of the Talas River. The Golden Age of Chinese Poetry, including the works of poet Li Bai, was during, for the point, what dynasty whose rulers included Empress Wu Zetian and which preceded the Song dynasty?---A member of this family wrote a pamphlet in the aftermath of the Denmark Vesey conspiracy claiming that teaching slaves literacy was extremely dangerous. Another member of this family signed a loyalty oath to Britain in an attempt to protect Snee Farm. At Wappoo Plantation, a woman who married into this family introduced indigo to the South. A member of this family led the American delegation in the XYZ Aﬀair as John Adams’ Vice President. Eliza Lucas married into, for the point, what South Carolina family that included Charles Cotesworth?---In an opera set in this country, the monk Athanael tries to convince the title courtesan to follow him to ﬁnd God; that 1894 opera features a “Meditation” for solo violin and was composed by Jules Massenet. Costuming for the premiere of an opera set in this country was delayed due to the Franco-Prussian War; that opera uses 12 elephants in a “triumphal march.” A princess is entombed with her lover Radames in, for the point, what country where the Khedivial Opera House premiered Verdi’s Aida in Cairo?---This battle may have been decided after Adeimantus swapped sides. Evagoras, the king of Cyprus, helped shelter survivors ﬂeeing from this battle. Xenophon claims that “no one slept” after news of this battle arrived via the ship Paralus. This battle’s result cut oﬀ trade routes to the harbor at Piraeus, starving defenders and citizens inside the Long Walls. The Thirty Tyrants were installed following, for the point, what victory for Lysander’s Spartans, the last major battle of the Peloponnesian War. Aegospotami---This man, who narrowly avoided accepting free passage on the Titanic by leaving on the Lusitania a few days earlier, met with Harold Bride and testiﬁed about the use of his invention during the disaster. This prominent fascist had his personal yacht, Elettra, outﬁtted into a warship after his death by the occupying Nazis. The message “Are you ready?” was sent by this man in 1897 using Morse code. The ﬁrst transatlantic cable line was set up by, for the point, what co-winner of the 1909 Nobel Prize in Physics, an Italian inventor of radio? Marconi---This man’s followers were called the “fuzzy wuzzies” after the elaborately styled hair of the Hadendoa tribe. After studying with Muhammad Sharif, this man began taking apprentices of his own at Aba Island. This man drew the ire of authorities after William Hicks” column was ambushed by this man’s dervishes. Abdallahi wad Torshayn succeeded this man after a fatal bout of typhus. This man managed to defeat Charles Gordon, but his cause eventually fell apart at the Battle of Omdurman. For the point, identify this 19th century messianic ﬁgure who led a revolt against the British in Sudan.---This man passed the Licensing Act in an attempt to prevent playwrights from criticizing the government through drama. The Earl of Bath founded the Patriot Boys to oppose this man, whose popularity dipped after the Porteous Riots. This politician’s tenure, which was dubbed the Robinocracy, spanned two decades in the service of kings George I and II. This leader oversaw the country’s economic recovery after the South Sea Bubble in 1720. For the point, name this ﬁrst prime minister of Great Britain.---A speech given in the aftermath of this event stated that its victim was a “Stradivarius, whose notes rose in competition with jealous drums.” Gerald L. K. Smith posited that this event allowed the owner of the Roosevelt Hotel to steal funds raised for a 1936 presidential campaign. The perpetrator of this event, the son-in-law of judge Benjamin Pavy, was shot dozens of times by bodyguards. One of several conﬂicting sources holds that this event included the dying lament “I have so much to do.” On September 8, 1935, Carl Weiss carried out, for the point, what fatal attack on a Louisiana politician nicknamed Kingﬁsh?---Prior to this battle, envoys’ heads were displayed on the Bab Zuweila gate after they brought a message that an enemy force would “shatter your mosques and reveal the weakness of your God!” During the campaign leading to this battle, Julian of Sidon killed the son of a general. Qutuz was assassinated after winning this battle against Kitbuqa. The Mamluk leader Baibars took power after this battle, which took place in the Jezreel Valley against Hulagu Khan’s invading force. For the point, name this 1260 defeat for the Mongols in the Levant.---In Article 40 of a document drafted by this ruler, he called for direct taxes of 300 francs on members of an electoral college. This man married a woman who never used perfume or brushed her teeth, Marie Jos´ephine of Savoy. The Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Peers were created as part of a bicameral legislature this man outlined in the Charter of 1814. This man was next in line to the throne after his nephew died at age 10, and was made king as part of the Bourbon Restoration. For the point, name this brother of Louis XVI who served as king of France before and after Napoleon’s Hundred Days.---A man in this position maintained a group of advisors called the “Black Kitchen Cabinet,” including future African-American Cabinet member Robert Weaver. A man in this Cabinet position reportedly originated the quote “I drink your milkshake.” The longest-serving person to hold this position was Harold Ickes, who helped black singer Marian Anderson perform at the Lincoln Memorial. During the Harding presidency, Albert B. Fall held this position and during the Teapot Dome scandal, took bribes to allow oil companies to drill at government-owned reserves. For the point, name this Cabinet position which manages the USA’s natural resources.---A vault in this location held over $6 million when Jimmy Burke’s crew robbed it in December 1978, a robbery that became part of the plot of Martin Scorsese’s ﬁlm Goodfellas. Viktor Navorski, played by Tom Hanks, is trapped in this location in Steven Spielberg’s The Terminal when US customs stops recognizing the ﬁctional country of Krakozhia. This facility in the neighborhood of Jamaica in Queens is southeast of a smaller facility named for Mayor Fiorella La Guardia. For the point, name this primary international airport in New York that was renamed for an assassinated president in 1963.---A myth in this country states that a candidate repeatedly asked a Conservative “How did you get this land?” until he got the reply “We took it from the natives.” A presidential candidate in this country was targeted in Operation Pantomime and eventually killed by Juan Roa Sierra. Alberto Lleras Camargo was the ﬁrst Liberal leader to take power in this country’s power sharing agreement from 1958 to 1974, the National Front. The death of Jorge Eli´ecer Gait´an sparked unrest in this nation leading to a civil war called “La Violencia.” For the point, name this South American country where Gait´an’s assassination provoked riots in Bogota.---This man may have advocated for a preemptive nuclear attack on the Soviet Union in a speech at Westminster School. This man and Albert Einstein co-name a manifesto that called for the ﬁrst Pugwash Conference. This man attempted to develop a series of sets and axioms from which all mathematics could be derived in a work co-written with Alfred North Whitehead. For the point, name this 20th century mathematician and philosopher who wrote Principia Mathematica.---Harry Laughlin designed the “Model Law” on which this case depended. Dr. Sidney Priddy ﬁled a petition that led to this court case, which concerned Arthur Estabrook’s analysis of Vivian Alice Elaine Dobbs as “backward.” A “promiscuous” mother was the plaintiﬀ in this case, in which an 8-1 majority upheld a Virginia law that was repealed in 1974. Oliver Wendell Holmes declared that “Three generations of imbeciles are enough” in, for the point, what 1927 Supreme Court decision that promoted eugenics by allowing forced sterilization of the mentally disabled? Buck v. Bell (accept either or both underlined names)---In 935, the Fatimid Caliphate’s navy sacked this city, whose leaders included a First Crusade member with the sobriquet “mallet head.” The Bank of Saint George was founded in this city, which helped France win the Barbary Crusade against Mahdia. Sailors often wore “Blue Jean” cloth from this city, which lost the War of Chioggia. This city, which controlled Gazaria and Caﬀa on the Black Sea coast helped win the Battle of Lepanto under Andrea Dorea. Christopher Columbus hailed from, for the point, what maritime Italian rival of Venice?---A history of this group is maintained in the Old Charges, and the Regius Poem documents how King Aethelstan created their ﬁfteen articles. Prince Hall created an African American oﬀshoot of this group. L´eo Taxil mocked this group and the Catholic Church in a hoax. The disappearance of William Morgan inspired a political party opposed to this group. Members of this organization form Lodges and believe in a Supreme Being. The ranks of Apprentice and Journeyman form part of, for the point, what fraternal organization named for stonecraft masters?---A debate hosted by this leader led to the execution of unruly Nichiren supporters and increased religious tolerance. Another religious disturbance opposed by this leader ended with the surrender of Kennyo, who led the Ikko sect. This leader was the ﬁrst daimyo to order matchlock riﬂes for his armies, which allowed him to defeat the Takeda clan at the Battle of Nagashino. After fooling the Imagawa clan with a decoy army at Okehazama, this leader allied with the Matsudaira clan of Tokugawa Ieyasu. For the point, name this ﬁrst Great Uniﬁer of Japan.---In 2010, USAID [U S “aid”] set up Zunzuneo, a version of Twitter, in this country, in an eﬀort to overthrow its government. This country’s current leader is the ﬁrst President since Osvaldo Dortic´os left oﬃce in 1976 to not be from the same family; that leader was chosen by a man who shook Barack Obama’s hand at Nelson Mandela’s funeral, marking a thaw in relations between the US and this country. For the point, name this country led by Miguel Diaz-Canel, who succeeded to the presidency after Raul Castro’s retirement.---This politician’s inability to communicate with China’s U.N. delegation led to the selection of Kurt Waldheim as Secretary-General in 1971. This man, the ﬁrst to oﬃcially serve as Acting President, bragged that his campaign was full of the “Big Mo” in an election in which he decried his opponent’s policies as “voodoo economics.” This president extolled volunteerism in his “thousand points of light” speech. For the point, name this Republican president whose son later served as the 43rd US president. Herbert Walker Bush (accept Bush the Elder, Bush the 41st; prompt on (George)---In 1920, this country faced the Pitchfork Uprising when peasants refused to give up their food. A revolt in this country’s “Central Agricultural Zone” was described as the “Jacquerie of 1905.” A rebel in this country took the cathedral at Yaitsk while disguised as a pilgrim but failed to take Simbrisk. Stenka Razin and Kondraty Bulavin led revolts in this country, where Yemelyan Pugachev’s cossacks were crushed in the 1770s. For the point, name this country where serfs ﬁnally gained emancipation under Alexander II.---Roger East was killed for investigating a group of journalists who were killed in this country, the Balibo Five. John Howard established INTERFET to intervene in this country after it was invaded in Operation Lotus. 250 protestors were killed at a pro-Fretilin rally in this country on Suharto’s orders. The Santa Cruz Massacre led to the end of the 25 year long occupation of, for the point, what country that became the ﬁrst new sovereign state of the 21st century after Indonesia gave up control of Dili?---Prosper of Aquitaine notes that a man named Palladius was sent to perform the primary accomplishment of this ﬁgure in 431 AD, a year before this ﬁgure’s traditional arrival. After this ﬁgure dreamed of his friend Victoricus, he entered the priesthood in either Gaul or Britain. This ﬁgure, the author of a popular prayer known as his “Breastplate,” debated Christianity at Tara. Saint Brigid of Kildare was converted by this man, who banished all the snakes from his island and analogized the Trinity using a shamrock. For the point, name this legendary saint of Ireland.---This country won control of “the Slot” on New Georgia Sound thanks to the aerial superiority of the Corsair plane. Herman Ernst shot down a buzz bomb while serving this country in a Black Widow warplane, the ﬁrst to use radar. Squadrons of Hellcats from this country were responsible for the Marianas Turkey Shoot, and Mitchell bombers from the Hornet carried out this country’s Doolittle raids on Tokyo. For the point, name this country that produced the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress during World War II.---John Reith was the ﬁrst general manager of this company, which was praised by the Pilkington Committee. The Sykes Committee reviewed a deadlock that was caused by this company and the GPO. A statue of George Orwell stands outside of the headquarters of this company, which was called a “Falsehood Company” during a 1926 general strike. Australian soprano Dame Nellie Melba was featured in this organization’s ﬁrst broadcast. King George V gave a Royal Christmas Message over the radio via, for the point, what public British media organization known as “the Beeb?” British Broadcasting Corporation---Jeremiah Haralson and James Rapier, two black representatives from this state, split the Republican vote and lost to Charles Shelley in a gerrymandered 1876 election. A Civil War camp in this state nicknamed “Castle Morgan” was located in its former capital of Cahaba. This state’s peonage laws were overturned in a 1911 13th Amendment case, Bailey v. this state. This state’s soldiers were known as “Yellowhammers” during the Civil War. After the War of 1812, this state’s “Fever” was a land grab for fertile “Black Belt” soil. For the point, name this Southern state where the Confederate blockade was completed at the Battle of Mobile Bay.---Educational methods that were originally developed for people living in this region are described in Paulo Freire’s book Pedagogy of the Oppressed. Patrick Tierny accused James Neel and Napoleon Chagnon of performing unethical research on people in this region in the book Darkness in El Dorado. Daniel Everett studied a tribe from this region who speak a language that lacks words for speciﬁc numbers. The Yanomami and Pirah˜a live in, for the point, what rainforest in South America?---Three shootings in this city, including the 2006 Dawson College shooting, were controversially linked by Jan Wong’s article “Get under the desk,” in which Wong described the history of the phrase “pure wool.” At another university in this city, women were separated from men and deliberately executed at ´ the Ecole Polytechnique. In 1970, the “Liberation Cell” kidnapped James Cross and killed James Laporte in, for the point, what city where much of the terror of the October Crisis was committed by Quebecois separatists?---The “world’s ﬁrst industrial suburb”, Ancoats, was built in this city. The “Ardwick Bridge” conspiracy ended this city’s Blanket March to protest against the regent. Richard Arkwright’s experimentation with cotton mills in this city led to it being known as “Cottonopolis”. Henry Hunt addressed a crown in a ﬁeld in this city, but its Yeomanry cut down many people in the Peterloo Massacre. The ﬁrst steam railway in the world connected this city with Liverpool. For the point, name this Lancashire city that was home to many Industrial Revolution-era mills and is now home to namesake United and City soccer teams.---A Confederate general with this surname was a priest who named four of his guns after the gospel writers; that man was nicknamed “Parson.” Another man with this surname ran on George McClellan’s ticket as the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential candidate in 1864. That man, nicknamed “Gentleman George,” names and helped write a bill supported by the Half-Breeds that was ﬁnally passed by lame duck Republicans in early 1883 after the assassination of James Garﬁeld. For the point, give this surname of the namesake of a Civil Service Reform Act. Pendleton (accept William Pendleton; accept George Pendleton; accept Pendleton (Civil---This man’s unoﬃcial political party, the Frateschi, successfully removed the longstanding punishment of exile. Piero the Unfortunate was succeeded by this man after he successfully begged Charles VIII of France to spare his city. This man was supported by the Piagnoni, but he fell from power after losing a challenge to walk through ﬁre. Sandro Botticelli may have burned some of his own paintings on the orders of this man. The Medici family were brieﬂy expelled by, for the point, what Dominican friar who controlled Florence in the late 15th century and ordered the Bonﬁre of the Vanities?---This novel’s epigraph, in which a ruler asks “Say, is my kingdom lost,” is taken from William Shakespeare’s play Richard II. In this novel, the Calvinist singer David Gamut has his life spared when his captors believe that he is insane. At the end of this novel, a Huron native kills Cora Munro in a ﬁght scene in which Magua is pursued by a frontiersman nicknamed “Hawkeye,” Natty Bumppo. The French and Indian War is the setting of, for the point, what second book of the Leatherstocking Tales by James Fenimore Cooper?---This conﬂict’s losing commander declared, “War is a game of luck, why do you blame me?” after losing at Ugeumchi. This conﬂict’s losing side argued for the rehabilitation of Choe Jeu’s reputation and demanded the expulsion of foreigners in the Samrye Petition. This conﬂict began as a response to the harsh policies of Gobu’s magistrate. The arrival of foreign aid in this conﬂict violated the Convention of Tientsin. The First Sino-Japanese war broke out when China intervened in, for the point, what 1894 revolt of Korean peasants, many of whom were united by a pantheistic belief system?---A leader of this dynasty had a “Lake of Wine and Forest of Meat” and was married to a woman portrayed as a fox spirit, Daji. A myth stated that this dynasty was founded after Jiandi swallowed a black bird’s egg and gave birth to Xie. King Wu defeated this dynasty with Jiang Ziya’s help. The ruins of Yinxu represent the last capital of this dynasty, which fell at the Battle of Muye. Archaeologists have studied ox scapulae and turtle shells to learn about writing and divination during, for the point, what Chinese dynasty that preceded the semi-mythical Xia and was succeeded by the Zhou?---This battle ﬁnally ended when the losing side managed to retreat behind the Narew River at Osovets. This battle coincided with an uprising by the Home Army in Vilnius during Operation Ostra Bama. During this battle, the tactic of maskirovka was used to deceive the losing side into defending Lvov. The Lublin-Brest Oﬀensive began near the end of this battle as one side gained a foothold in Eastern Poland. A prince who fought in the Napoleonic Wars names, for the point, what 1944 battle in which the Soviet Union destroyed Germany’s Army Group Centre? Bagration (accept descriptions of the Soviet Union’s strategic oﬀensive operation---During a war with this name, Chief Paulina evaded George Crook’s forces. This name was given by white people to the Northern Paiute, Bannock, and Western Shoshone people, and probably comes a description the Mandans gave to Pierre Gaultier de Varennes. The Bureau of Reclamation helped control a river with this name in the Minidoka Project, to provide irrigation to potato crops. The Brownlee Dam impounds a river with this name at Hells Canyon, which crosses Twin Falls and Idaho Falls. For the point, give this name for the largest tributary of the Columbia River in the Paciﬁc Northwest.---After an ambush of troops in the Crater District, Operation Stirling Castle was launched in this country, where Colin Mitchell ordered a pipe band to play to force insurgents to surrender. The northern part of this nation was known as the Mutawakkilite Kingdom, and in its southern region, the FLOSY and NLF fought against British rule until 1967. In 1978, Ali Abdallah Saleh became president of part of this country, which uniﬁed in 1990. The 2000 USS Cole bombing took place in, for the point, what country on the Arabian Peninsula where the British faced the Aden Emergency?---This composer showed Henri Akoka the sketches for what would become his “Abyss of the Birds.” This composer used unconventional instruments like the Provenc¸al tabor and ondes Martenot in a symphony premiered by Leonard Bernstein in 1949. A guard acquired three instruments for the premiere of a piece by this composer that opens with a “Crystal Liturgy” section and ends with a “Praise to the immortality of Jesus;” that piece by this composer was written while in a POW camp in Gorlitz, Germany. For the point, name this composer of the Turangalila-Symphonie and the Quartet for the End of Time.---Evidence produced during this event included a photograph of Robert Stevens and the central ﬁgure that was allegedly doctored to remove Frank Carr and Colonel Jack Bradley. A letter supposedly written by J. Edgar Hoover to Herbert Brownell Jr. was procured during this event, in which one man asked for a list of 130 people “before the sun goes down.” Fred Fisher’s membership in the National Lawyers Guild, the “legal bulwark of the Communist Party,” was attacked during this event, which infuriated Joseph Welch. Karl Mundt chaired, for the point, what series of Senate hearings in 1954 involving a branch of the armed forces in which a Wisconsin senator was asked “have you left no sense of decency?”---During this man’s rule, the poor hyperakrioi were brought into politics for the ﬁrst time as the “hill dweller” party. This man’s dynasty began to collapse after one of his sons was assassinated by Harmodius and Aristogeiton in 514 BC. This man controversially rode into the city in a golden chariot with a woman dressed as Athena to end his ﬁrst of two stints in exile. The Panathenaic Games were established during the reign of, for the point, what father of Hippias and Hipparchus who led Athens as tyrant on three separate occasions in the six century BC? Pisistratus---This plot ended with one man’s call for “one more distinguished proof of unexampled patriotism and patient virtue.” Alexander McDougall served as a mouthpiece for the actors of this plot, which was promoted by a letter written by John Armstrong. A man asked permission to use a pair of glasses, as he had “not only grown gray but almost blind in the service of my country,” while delivering a speech that defused this plot. Discontent at the lack of promised payments for soldiers in the Continental Army fueled, for the point, what 1783 conspiracy ended by George Washington?---During the Thirty Years’ War, Simon Dach served as the Chair of Poetry at this city’s Albertina University. An Allied bombing campaign in this city destroyed over 40 percent of its housing, including much of its Kneiphof district. Immanuel Kant spent his career teaching in this city, which followed Marienburg as the capital of the Teutonic Order in 1454. This city was the subject of an early graph theory problem proposed by Leonhard Euler [oy-ler] dealing with seven of its bridges. Following World War II, this city was given to the USSR, and it remains an exclave of Russia. For the point, name this East Prussian city known today as Kaliningrad.---This ruler’s general Gannys consolidated his rule with victory at the Battle of Antioch. A black meteorite from Emesa was imported as a relic during this man’s rule. This ruler’s aunt, Julia Maesa, turned against him thanks to his controversial marriage to a Vestal Virgin and his relationship with Hierocles. After the Praetorian Guard assassinated this emperor, his cousin Alexander was placed on the throne. For the point, name this possibly transgender emperor of the Severan dynasty who promoted worship of Sol Invictus, a sun god, in Rome.---This dynasty’s coins are sorted into the Garuda, lion, and border legend varieties. The Buddhist monk Fa Xian wrote an account of this dynasty during a visit in the reign of King Vikramaditya. This dynasty consolidated its rule by conquering the Oxus valley, according to Kalidasa. The Iron Pillar is a lasting monument of this dynasty, which eventually fell to attacks from the White Huns. Samudra and Chandra were responsible for the early expansion of, for the point, what dynasty that was considered to be the “Golden Age” of India from the 4th to 6th centuries AD?---In a painting by this artist set at Gennevilliers, a ﬁgure in a blue coat and straw hat carries a bag along a narrow path. In another painting, this artist’s mother and sister sit together, wearing contrasting white and black dresses and reading. This artist painted In the Wheat en plein air, and was credited with maintaining “feminine grace” among “ﬁve or six lunatics” in an 1874 review of the ﬁrst Impressionist exhibition. For the point, name this French painter who created Woman and Child on a Balcony and The Cradle. Morisot---After a European emissary went upstream to these people’s capital of Orapakes, the native women tortured Captain John Ratcliﬀe and the men killed the rest. A chief of these people was shot in the back by a guard after being captured by William Berkeley. Chief Opchanacanough [ope-uh-CHANK-an-oh] led these people on surprise raids in 1622, killing one quarter of Jamestown’s population. Englishman John Smith was captured by, for the point, what Virginian Native American tribe that included the princess Pocahontas?---This city was the site of an early Victorian skyscraper, the APA building, which brieﬂy claimed to be the world’s tallest building. This city’s “Canvas Town” tent camp served new migrants during an 1851 gold rush. Batman’s Treaty was a purchase agreement for this city’s land around Port Phillip Bay on the Yarra River. The 1956 Summer Olympics were held in this city, which served as seat of government until Canberra took over in 1927. For the point, name this city in the state of Victoria, the second-largest Australian city after Sydney.---This organization was attacked by the encyclical Qui Pluribus and the bull Ecclesiam a Jesu Christo. Members of this group called each other “good cousins,” met at “Baracca,” and called their opponents “Pagani.” Silvio Pellico was arrested for being a member of this group, which led a revolt against Ferdinand I of Naples to try to get a constitution. Independence leaders like Giuseppe Garibaldi were members of, for the point, what informal underground revolutionary groups calling for Italian independence whose name means “charcoal makers?”---An early church theologian who worked in this city moved to Caesarea after Demetrius failed to ordain him. Arian was a priest in this city’s Baucalis district, where St. Mark was reportedly martyred. This city, where Origen ﬁrst taught, was also the site of an institution located in the Mouseion that included researchers like Eratosthenes, who calculated the Earth’s circumference. An angry mob in this city killed the mathematician Hypatia. Ptolemy II founded a large library in, for the point, what Egyptian city named for a “Great” Macedonian leader?---Companies in this country have controversially used the abbreviations “BBR” and “NBBR” to indicate whether job applicants and employees are native-born or not. In summer 1981, rioters in this country’s suburbs stole cars and set them on ﬁre in “rod´eo” riots. Maghrebi and Harkis [har-kee] were forced into shantytowns in this country following the Algerian War of Independence. In 1961 in this country, Maurice Papon ordered protesters thrown oﬀ the Pont Saint-Michel. For the point, name this country where Jacques Chirac declared a state of emergency during the 2005 Paris riots. France---During the rule of a monarch with this name, his minister Luis de Haro lost the Battle of the Lines of Elvas. The Count-Duke of Olivares and the Duke of Lerma served as prime ministers for two monarchs with this name. Another monarch with this name led a country that faced ﬁve bankruptcies in the late 1500s and annexed Portugal. While opposing Elizabeth I, a king of this name sent the Spanish Armada. Several Kings of Spain had, for the point, what name held by the son of Hapsburg king Charles V?---Edwin Sumner and this man were the two Union generals wounded at the Battle of Glendale. At his most famous battle, this general established the Pipe Creek Line, setting Emmitsburg as the western boundary of his perimeter. At that battle, the Third Corps made an unauthorized relocation under Daniel Sickles, who often butted heads with this general. Three days before his most famous battle, this man replaced Joseph Hooker as leader of the Army of the Potomac. Pickett’s Charge was thwarted by, for the point, what general who commanded Union forces at the Battle of Gettysburg?---This city was seized by the Chinese pirate Limahong in 1574 and captured again in 1762 by British commander William Draper during the Seven Years” War. Fighting in this city led to the liberation of the Santo Tomas Internment Camp while Tomoyuki Yamashita carried out a massacre of many civillians. During World War II, this city’s walled Intramuros was largely shelled into rubble. In 1942, American forces held out in this city’s bay on Corregidor Island. For the point, name this city where, in 1898, Admiral Patricio Montijo lost a key battle in the Spanish-American War to George Dewey.---In 1980, police in this state altered a crime scene after beating Arthur McDuﬃe to death. In this state, the Carrier family defended their house against the KKK in Rosewood. A lodge owner in this state threw hydrochloric acid into a pool full of black protesters during a movement led by Robert Hayling. In 2000, Border Patrol agents stormed a house in this state to secure Elian Gonzalez, a six-year-old boy who was returned to his father in Cuba. For the point, name this state, the site of the Saint Augustine civil rights movement and the 1980 Miami riots.---This speech was leaked to the New York Times after a copy of it was acquired by Wiktor Grajewski. A story about a world leader shaking his ﬁnger to cause Tito to fall is recounted in this speech. This speech declared there was no “aﬀair of the doctor plotters” and supposedly caused heart attacks when it was ﬁrst delivered to the 20th Congress of the Soviet Union. “On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences” is the oﬃcial title of, for the point, what Nikita Khrushchev speech criticizing Joseph Stalin?---A battle in this war opened with ground attacks on the Orphan Hills. A woodcut made as propaganda during this war shows a leader waking from a nightmare of his injured troops returning home. During this war, an admiral raised the Z-ﬂag and “crossed the T” of the enemy line of ships. A replacement ﬂeet in this war accidentally ﬁred on British trawlers in the Dogger Bank incident. Togo Heihachiro won this war’s Battle of Tsushima Straits. The Treaty of Portsmouth ended, for the point, what early 20th century war in which an Asian nation beat a European power?---Samuel Eliot Morison claims that the central myth about this event still exists despite “solemn denials and documentary proof.” Thomas Jesup was appointed as a military observer at this event, which was presided over by George Cabot. The Essex Junto was well represented at this meeting, where twelve of the 26 members were from Massachusetts. Anger over the passage of the Embargo Act of 1807 was the impetus for this meeting, which discussed discontent over the ongoing War of 1812. For the point, name this meeting of Federalists in Connecticut.---Twenty of these units were employed at the Battle of Heraclea by Pyrrhus of Epirus. These units were forced to scatter after Metellus’ troops used javelins from a ditch at the Battle of Panormus. During his triumph attempt, Pompey was unsuccessful in attempting to enter the gates of Rome with four of these units. Though some were able to be used during the Second Punic War, many of these units perished during the crossing of the Alps. For the point, name these animal units that could pierce soldiers with their tusks.---This leader severed diplomatic relations with the United Kingdom after they refused to provide reimbursement for ﬁve ships they seized in the Christie Question. Francisco Solano Lopez triggered a war with this man’s country by ordering the invasion of Mato Grosso. This man was exiled to Europe following a military coup less than four months after his daughter Isabel abolished slavery with the Golden Law. For the point, name this ﬁnal Emperor of Brazil.---In this country, Daniel Owino Misiani and other musicians blended Congolese soukous [soo-koo] and South African kwela music into a genre called benga. In 1976, a university in this country ﬁred imprisoned professor and author of A Grain of Wheat, Ngugi wa Thiongo. The neighborhood of Kasarani is home to a stadium named for this country’s second president, Daniel arap Moi [moh-ee]. Bronislaw Malinowski wrote the introduction to an anthropological study of this country’s Kikuyu people written by its ﬁrst president. For the point, name this country where British colonial rulers moved the capital inland from Mombasa to Nairobi. Kenya---In the aftermath of this battle, Caleb Swan and William Wells were among the representatives at treaty negotiations. A group of Canadian volunteers under Alexander McKillop fought alongside Buckongahelas on the losing side of this battle. Blue Jacket decided to take up a spot along the Maumee River during this battle, but his forces were decimated by a cavalry charge. The Treaty of Greenville was signed after this victory for “Mad” Anthony Wayne. For the point, name this 1794 battle named for the natural defenses exploited by the Shawnee and their confederates after a recent storm.---This philosopher demonstrated the diﬀerence between imagination and intellect with the example of a chiliagon, a polygon with one thousand sides. This thinker, who supposedly experienced three visions while sleeping inside of an oven, served as an adviser to Queen Christina of Sweden. This philosopher introduced the clear and distinct ideas criterion in books like Meditations on First Philosophy. For the point, name this 17th century French rationalist who posited “cogito ergo sum,” or “I think, therefore I am.”---Description acceptable. Journalist James Risen found that religious leaders who did not cooperate in this event were threatened with “savage punishment” by agents pretending to be communists. This event may have been inspired by the decision of the Majlis to nationalize the oil industry. Hossein Fatemi was executed and Fazlollah Zahedi rose to power following this event, which re-established the power of the Pahlavi Dynasty. The CIA planned this event as Operation Ajax. For the point, name this 1953 event that resulted in the overthrow of a democratically elected Iranian Prime Minister.---A mayor of this city canceled the planned sale of its municipal light operations to the CEI company, sparking a 1978 default on debt payments. This city’s transit system was developed by the Van Sweringen Brothers, who founded its suburb of Shaker Heights. Carl Stokes became the ﬁrst African-American to be elected a mayor of an American city here, and Dennis Kucinich survived a recall election as its mayor in the 1970s. The 2016 Republican National Convention was held in, for the point, what Midwestern city that gained notoriety for the ﬁres that burned its polluted Cuyahoga River?---When this general was labeled as mad, his king replied “then I hope he will bite some of my other generals.” This man’s friend John Mordaunt called on him to be appointed Quartermaster General during the Raid of Rochefort, which occurred two years prior to a siege where this man fought under Jeﬀrey Amherst. L’Anse-au-Foulon was used as a landing point at a battle where this man led a small contingent up the Saint Lawrence River. The Marquis de Montcalm was defeated by, for the point, what general who died leading his troops to victory at the Battle of Quebec? Wolfe---Juvenal Habyarimana’s body was stored by this leader before burial by a Hindu leader. This leader’s Prime Minister, Kengo wa Dondo, expelled people of Lebanese descent for trading blood diamonds. The Safari club defended this man’s nation in the Shaba I conﬂict. This man, who built accommodations for Concorde jets at Gbadolite, his “Versailles of the Jungle,” killed Simba rebel leader Pierre Mulele and was overthrown by Laurent Kabila. During the Congo Crisis, this man deposed the government of Patrice Lumumba. For the point, name this long time dictator of Zaire.---A theologian from this country founded the non-church movement in 1901. Francis Xavier was the ﬁrst Catholic missionary to preach in this country, whose residents originally mistook Christianity for a new Indian religion due to its similarities with Pure Land Buddhism. In 1597, 26 Christians in this country were cruciﬁed and impaled with spears under the orders of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. For the point, name this country whose Christian population has historically been based in Nagasaki.---This event’s perpetrators wished to exact vengeance after a violent suppression of Pedro Campos’ revolt was described as a mere “incident.” The sudden arrival of Vincent Mroz helped thwart this event, whose target had been staying at the Blair House due to ongoing renovations at the White House. Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola, two Puerto Rican nationalists, attempted to carry out, for the point, what failed attempt on the life of the President in 1947?---One of these vehicles known as R101 killed 48 people on its maiden voyage to Karachi. The Soci´et´e Zodiac produced the SPIESS, the only one of these vehicles manufactured by France. The Daily Mail incentivized subscribers by oﬀering up to 200 pounds for each reader killed by one of these vehicles during World War I. The Bodensee and Nordstern were types of this vehicle built by Germany in an attempt to subvert the Treaty of Versailles. The Empire State Building’s spire was intended as a mooring mast for, for the point, what type of aircraft built by Luftschiﬀbau Zeppelin?---
Iron Guard (accept Totul Pentra Tara; accept Legionaires’ Movement; accept Legion of the Archangel Michael before mentioned)---Vietnam (or Dai Viet)---Artemisia Gentileschi------Page 1 ---Joanna (accept Joanna La Betraneja; accept Joanna the Mad or Juana la Loca)---Tang Dynasty---Pinckney family---Egypt---Battle of---Guglielmo Page 2 ---Muhammad Ahmad bin Abd Allah (accept the Mahdi)---Sir Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford (accept either or both names)---assassination (or murder, shooting, etc.) of Huey P. Long---Battle of Ain Jalut (accept Battle of the Spring of Goliath; accept Battle of Harod Spring)---Louis XVIII [18] of France (accept Louis the Desired; prompt on “Louis”) Page 3 ---Secretary of the Interior---John F. Kennedy International Airport (accept JFK Airport; accept additional information, like “New York-JFK;” accept Idlewild Airport; do not accept or prompt on partial answers like “New York Airport”)---Republic of Colombia---Bertrand Russell---Page 4 ---Genoa (accept Genova)---Masons (accept Freemasons; accept word forms like (Free)masonry)---Oda Nobunaga (or Nobunaga Oda)---Republic of Cuba---George Bush; do not accept “George Walker Bush” or other references to his son; do not accept George Bush Sr.) Page 5 ---Russian Empire (do not accept Soviet Union)---East Timor (or Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste)---Saint Patrick (or Saint Padraig)---United States of America (accept America; accept USA)---Page 6 ---Alabama---Amazon rainforest (accept Amazon River basin or similar answers; prompt on South America; prompt on Brazil)---Montreal---Manchester---Service Reform) Act) Page 7 ---Girolamo Savonarola---The Last of the Mohicans---Donghak Peasant Revolt (accept Gabo Peasant Revolution; prompt on descriptions of the Korean peasant revolt of 1894)---Shang Dynasty (accept Yin Dynasty before “Yinxu” is mentioned)---Operation in Belorussia) Page 8 ---Snake (accept serpent; accept Snake War; accept Snake Indians or Gens du serpent; accept Snake River)---Yemen---Olivier Messiaen---Army-McCarthy hearings (accept descriptions related to Senate hearings concerning the US Army and Joseph McCarthy; prompt on partial answers)---Page 9 ---Newburgh Conspiracy---Konigsb¨erg (prompt on Kaliningrad)---Elagabalus (accept Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus, but do not prompt on partial answers thereof)---Gupta Empire---Berthe Marie Pauline Page 10 ---Powhatans (accept Powhatan Confederacy; prompt on Algonquins)---Melbourne---Carbonari (prompt on descriptions of underground pre-uniﬁcation Italian revolutionary groups)---Alexandria, Egypt---Page 11 ---Philip (accept Philip IV, Philip III or Philip II of Spain)---George Gordon Meade---Manila---Florida---Khrushchev’s Secret Speech (accept On the Cult of Personality and its Consequences before it is mentioned) Page 12 ---Russo-Japanese War---Hartford Convention---war elephants---Dom Pedro II (prompt on Pedro alone)---Page 13 ---Battle of Fallen Timbers---Ren´e Descartes [day-kart]---1953 coup d’etat against Mohammad Mosaddegh (accept Operation Ajax before it is read; accept equivalent descriptions, like “the CIA overthrowing Mosaddegh; prompt on partial answers describing a coup, revolution, etc. in Iran that don’t mention Mosaddegh)---Cleveland---James Page 14 ---Mobutu Sese Seko (Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga) (or Joseph-D´esir´e Mobutu)---Japan (or Nihon; or Nippon)---attempted assassination of Harry Truman (accept shooting of Truman and similar equivalents; do not accept anything that indicates Truman died)---rigid airships (accept blimps; accept Zeppelins before mentioned) Page 15---