A---True---32
Henry Hunt ordered his cannons to slowly stop ﬁring before this action. A “copse of trees” was the supposed end goal of this event, in which soldiers were taunted with chants of “Fredericksburg!” The left ﬂank of this action was destroyed by the 8th Ohio Infantry regiment. James Longstreet was actually in command during this military action, although it is named for the commander who led the vanguard assault. For the point, name this disastrous attack on Cemetery Hill during the Battle of Gettysburg which marked the “high-mark of the Confederacy.”---Nils Dacke led a peasant uprising in this country. In a bout of insanity, one ruler of this country murdered various noblemen from the Sture family. In 1520, Christian II reneged on his promise of amnesty, instead carrying out a “bloodbath” in this country’s capital. One ruler of this country defeated Albrecht von Wallenstein, but died himself, at the Battle of Lutzen; that House of Vasa ruler was Gustavus Adolphus. The Kalmar Union included Norway, Denmark, and, for the point, what Scandinavian country with capital Stockholm?---After this battle, a garrison on Psyttaleia [sit-uh-LYE-uh] was slaughtered by Aristides the Just. A Calyndian ship was accidentally sunk by a ﬂeeing ally during this battle; that ally, Artemisia of Halicarnassus, inspired the losing general to quip “My men have become women, and my women, men!” The winning side in this battle lured the enemy ﬂeet into the narrow straits, trapping them as Xerxes watched from a nearby cliﬀ. Themistocles was victorious at, for the point, what 480 BC naval battle, a victory for the Greeks over the Persians?---ACLU reporter Curt Guyette published an internal memo, written by Miguel del Toral, discussing this city’s failure to provide CCT, a process ended by this city’s mayor, Dayne Walling, in April 2014. Eighteen months later, after a serious leaching issue was announced, this city resumed using Lake Huron, rather than a local river, whose corrosive water was left untreated by this city. Lead contamination has poisoned the drinking water in, for the point, what Michigan city?---Hill v. McDonough provided that this action could be prosecuted under Statue 1983 of the Civil Rights Act of 1871. Woodson v. North Carolina prevents this process from occurring as a mandatory consequence. The federal government conducts this action at Terre Haute, Indiana. Gregg v. Georgia reinstated it in certain circumstances, overturning its predecessor, Furman v. Georgia, decided just 4 years earlier. The United States is the only Western country to continue to use, for the point, what form of punishment?---A work that depicts this event pairs the voices of Paul, Rachel, and Rachella with a string quartet, and a symphony named for an incident in this campaign near Kiev sets ﬁve poems of Yevgeny Yevtushenko. This is the subject of Steve Reich’s Diﬀerent Trains and an Arnold Schoenberg work that ends with the “Shema Yisroel”. For the point, Shostakovich’s Babi Yar and A Survivor from Warsaw depict what World War II genocide in which the Nazis killed six million Jews?---David Byrne adapted this leader’s life into the musical Here Lies Love. In 1966, this leader screamed “They’ve let me down!” on live television after the Beatles declined an invitation to Malacan˜ang Palace. This leader’s husband died in exile in 1989, having been ousted by the People Power Revolution. For the point, name this “Steel Butterﬂy,” the widow of former Philippine President Ferdinand, most notable for a collection of thousands of shoes.---One work by a Nobel laureate from this country is dedicated to C. Wright Mills and is set on the deathbed of the title tycoon, who refuses his wife, Catalina. A travelogue of this country entitled The Lawless Roads focused on the persecution of the Catholic Church in this country in the 1930s. In this country, Coral Fellows helps the protagonist escape from the Lieutenant, though he is eventually betrayed by the Mestizo in Graham Greene’s The Power and the Glory. For the point, name this country, the setting of The Death of Artemio Cruz by Carlos Fuentes.---After an airstrike on the Independence Palace during this conﬂict, one leader declared himself to have “divine” protection and was declared to be like “Winston Churchill” by one ally. Cable 243 was sent during this war to convince that ruler to remove his brother as the head of the ARVN Special Forces. The Strategic Hamlet Program was unsuccessfully implemented during this conﬂict, and Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. tacitly endorsed the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem during this war. For the point, name this lengthy, Southeast Asian conﬂict fought between two halves of a country with capitals at Hanoi and Saigon, respectively.---The succession of this dynasty is described in the AIMA prophecy. Isaac II of the Angelos dynasty ended this dynasty’s rule. Robert Guiscard [gwee-scar] defeated the forces of this dynasty at the Battle [dir-RAKE-ium]. At the Council of Piacenza [pia-CHEN-zah], one ruler from this dynasty of Dyrrhacium asked Pope Urban II for aid against the Seljuk Turks, which eventually resulted in the First Crusade. For the point, name this dynasty that was founded by Alexius I and ruled the Byzantine Empire during most of the 12th century.---One team that played this sport was to be named the “Birmingham Blast,” which unfortunately recalled the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing. That team played one season in 2001 as part of a league founded by Vince McMahon. Donald Trump’s New Jersey Generals played this sport in a league that won $3 in a lawsuit against a monopolistic competitor run by commissioner Pete Rozelle. The family of Junior Seau [say-ow] ﬁled a wrongful death lawsuit, claiming that the risks of brain damage playing this sport were hidden by league oﬃcials. For the point, name this sport, whose dominant American league is now run by Roger Goodell.---This legislation superseded the Preemption Act, and the Kinkaid Act modiﬁed it to apply to full sections in western Nebraska. This act was limited to citizens who had never taken up arms against the United States and was eﬀectively repealed in 1976, with a ten-year extension for Alaskan claims. Applicants under this act were required to improve their plot and reside there for ﬁve years. For the point, name this 1862 legislation that granted land in the Western US to yeoman farmers.---This colony merged with Saybrook in 1644. A founding document of this colony, drafted by lawyer Roger Ludlow, was supposedly hidden from Edmond Andros, governor of the Dominion of New England, in the Charter Oak. This colony’s founder, Thomas Hooker, co-authored a document sometimes called the “ﬁrst constitution,” this colony’s Fundamental Orders. For the point, what colony took over New Haven and was founded along a namesake river at Hartford?---This region includes the Constable Islands bird sanctuary, and its Royal Island was once connected via cable car to a site used to isolate political prisoners. A facility near this region’s city of Kourou is the primary launch facility of the European Space Agency. An oﬀshore penal colony here was the site of Alfred Dreyfus’s imprisonment, Devil’s Island. For the point, Cayenne is the capital of what overseas department bordered by Suriname and Brazil, and ruled from Paris?---This philosopher uses the travels of Uzbek and Rica to provide commentary on French politics in his Persian Letters. In a work banned by the Catholic Church, he believed that the geography of a country helped determine the type of government that developed there and advocated for the separation of a government’s judicial branch from the legislative and executive. For the point, name this French Enlightenment philosopher of The Spirit of the Laws. Montesquieu---In this country, Abdul Haris Nasution was targeted for an assassination that was blamed on the PKI but carried out by G30S [G “thirty” S]. After that coup attempt, a series of mass killings in this country broke out; those killings are the subject of Joshua Oppenheimer’s documentaries The Look of Silence and The Act of Killing. In the aftermath of that turmoil, this country’s New Order replaced its system of “Guided Democracy”. For the point, name this country, once led by Sukarno and Suharto from Jakarta. Indonesia---One ruler with this name declared “I am the emperor, and I want dumplings!” as possibly his only coherent order. Another ruler with this name ascended the throne after the Mutiny of Aranjuez [air-an-WETH], replacing his father, Charles IV. The death of one ruler with this name sparked the Carlist Wars, due to the ascension of Isabella II to the throne. Another ruler with this name expelled the Jews from his country with his wife via the Alhambra Decree. For the point, give this name of seven Spanish kings, one of whom married Isabella of Castile.---This actress played the owner of London’s Windmill Theater, which was allowed to feature nudity on the condition that the women did not move, in Mrs Henderson Presents. In another role, this actress judged whether a playwright could capture true love, earning the 1998 Best Supporting Actress Oscar. For the point, name this actress who portrayed Queen Elizabeth I in Shakespeare in Love and M in eight recent James Bond ﬁlms.---This man’s successor accused him of complicity in the Boipatong Massacre during negotiations that led to a power-sharing plan. This politician defeated Barend du Plessis in an election to replace P.W. Botha. This leader of the National Party ended his nation’s ban on the African National Congress, paving the way to end apartheid. For the point, name this last Afrikaner president of South Africa, who was succeeded by Nelson Mandela.---Leisler’s rebellion took control of this city after the fall of Edmund Andros, and a supposed slave conspiracy in this city in 1741 led to the hanging of over 100 people. In the Treaty of Westminster, this city was essentially traded to the English for modern-day Suriname in 1674. Alexander Hamilton attended school at King’s College in this city, which later became Columbia University. For the point, name this large city, renamed from New Amsterdam, the current ﬁnancial capital of the United States.---This man led a ﬁlibuster against the Aldrich-Vreeland Act and exposed Philetus Sawyer’s attempt to bribe him to ﬁx a court case. He established workers’ compensation and a graduated income tax as part of his state’s namesake “idea.” This Republican chose Democrat Burton Wheeler as his running mate for a third-party campaign that won his home state in 1924. The direct primary, referendum, and recall election were among the political innovations of, for the point, what progressive Wisconsin senator? LaFollette, Sr.---One monarch with this name and number was deposed in the “Farce of Avila” and was nicknamed the “Impotent.” Another monarch with this name and number survived the Hotspur and Shrewsbury rebellions. The son of John of Gaunt shares this name and number with a Holy Roman Emperor who was in power during the Investiture Controversy. For the point, name this name and number also shared by a Bourbon French king from Navarre who gave signiﬁcant rights to Huguenots with the Edict of Nantes. Henry IV---A feast celebrating “Fathers of” the second one of these events is celebrated on the Sunday closest to October 11th. That one of these events reverted a 756 ruling by Constantine V. One of these events tried to resolve a schism put forth by Meletius of Lycopolis and set a date for Easter. The second one of these events condemned the Byzantine Iconoclasm, while the ﬁrst rejected Arianism. For the point, name these two ecumenical councils, the ﬁrst of which established a namesake creed.---This bill was modiﬁed by the Landrum-Griﬃn Act, which required secret elections. Brown v. United States struck down a provision in this bill requiring aﬀected parties to sign an anti-Communist oath. This bill, which forbade secondary boycotts and allowed states to enact right-to-work legislation, was passed over Harry Truman’s veto in 1947. For the point, what legislation named after a New Jersey representative and Ohio senator modiﬁed the Wagner Act and outlawed closed shops?---One artist from this country painted a blindfolded girl about to step oﬀ a step in Blind Man’s Bluﬀ. Several Cupids circle a ship in the background of a “courtship party” work from this country. Another artist from this country depicted the poor, including a breastfeeding woman and a hooded woman with a basket, in The Third Class Carriage. One revolutionary leader in this country was killed in his bathtub by Charlotte Corday, the subject of a painting by Jacques-Louis David. For the point, name this country where the Rococo style was developed after the reign of Louis XIV.---This nation has faced a secessionist movement in its Casamance region since 1982. This nation’s island of Goree was used as a slave trading post by the Dutch and the French. This nation’s ﬁrst president survived an assassination attempt by Moustapha Lo and was a founder of the Negritude movement. From 1982 to 1989, this country entered into a confederation with a neighboring country that it surrounds on three sides, the Gambia. For the point, name this country formerly governed by Leopold Senghor from Dakar.---This man’s work in weapons research included naming a rule that related the concentration of poisons exposed to the time before death. This man was the ﬁrst leader of Degesch, the company that would later patent a gas used in the holocaust, Zyklon B. He originally used a rare osmium catalyst in a process that now uses an iron-based catalyst to combine nitrogen and hydrogen. For the point, name this German scientist who co-names a method for ammonia synthesis with Carl Bosch. Haber---Student protesters in this country planned to target Hubert Humphrey in the “pudding assassination.” Benno Ohnesorg was killed protesting the Shah of Iran’s visit to this country, where one leader had to resign after the Guillaume Aﬀair. Andreas Baader founded the Red Army Faction in this country, where Willy Brandt normalized relations with his policy of Ostpolitik. For the point, name this former country, established from American, French and British occupation zones, whose communist eastern neighbor built the Berlin Wall.---This leader condemned the Montoneros for assassinating union leader Jose Ignacio Rucci. In one election, this leader employed a slogan pitting him against Spurille Braden. As this leader spoke in 1955 against his apparent excommunication, planes bombed the Plaza de Mayo, killing hundreds and leading to a coup against him. The descamisados supported, for the point, what husband of Isabel and Eva Duarte, a populist president of Argentina?---Paul Schenck sued to remove “ﬂoating buﬀer zones” relating to protesting of this practice. One law regarding this practice was required to include a judicial bypass procedure by the Supreme Court in Hodgson v. Minnesota. LeRoy Carhart successfully sued against a Nebraska law, then unsuccessfully sued against a federal law, that banned one form of this practice. The Mexico City Gag Rule limits the promotion of this practice, for which the Hyde Amendment prevents federal funding. For the point, what medical procedure was legally protected, in accordance with the right to privacy, by 1973’s Roe v. Wade ?---During this battle, Karl Gustav von Baggovut took over ﬁghting in the village of Utitsa after Nikolai Tuchkov was wounded. The Bagration ﬂeches and the Raevsky redoubt served as a strongholds for one side in this battle. Despite this battle’s winning side defeating Mikhail Kutuzov’s forces and advancing to the capital city, Tsar Alexander I refused to surrender, forcing a retreat. For the point, name this 1812 battle featuring Napoleon against the Russians that took place outside of Moscow.---Arrian’s Anabasis describes how this man drank with Medius for a night and another day before contracting a fever, possibly due to malaria contracted on the Euphrates. Numerous ancient sources blame Antipater for poisoning this man with water from the river Styx. In Babylon, this man predicted “There will be funeral ‘games’ in good earnest when I have gone,” after leaving his kingdom “to the strongest.” The Diadochi fought over the lands conquered by, for the point, what Macedonian ruler who conquered the Persian Empire? Alexander the Great---The speaker in this event resolved to “endure the unendurable.” This event was nearly prevented by hundreds of oﬃcers led by Kenji Hatanaka in the Kyujo incident, a failed coup at the Imperial palace where the central object of this event was smuggled out, supposedly in a laundry basket. The formal speech used during this event led to confusion, so announcers then explained the implications of the Potsdam Declaration. For the point, name this event in which Emperor Hirohito announced, over the radio, the surrender of Japan to end World War II.---One resident of this city, Mumia Abu-Jamal, was sentenced to death for the 1981 murder of police oﬃcer Daniel Faulkner. Sixty-ﬁve houses were destroyed in this city in 1985 when police dropped a helicopter bomb on a compound led by John Africa. MOVE was based in this city, where a pavilion was built in 1976 to house an object that cracked before it was rung to celebrate the Declaration of Independence. For the point, what city’s Independence National Historical Park is home to the Liberty Bell?---A 2012 Smithsonian exhibition on these people was subtitled “The Paradox of Liberty.” Peter Carr was accused of having illicit aﬀairs with some of these people. Edmund Bacon oversaw these people where they worked on producing nails. James Callendar ﬁrst expounded a theory that some of these people, including Madison and Eston, had mixed genes due to a controversial intimate relationship. For the point, name these people, including Sally Hemings, who were kept in enslavement on the estate of Monticello.---This scientist’s early studies included analysis on Parisian street lighting and the health eﬀects of the Parisian sewers. With Laplace, this scientist showed that respiration was a slower form of combustion. This scientist’s refusal to let Jean-Paul Marat into the Academy of Science, coupled with his forays into tax collection, ultimately led to this scientist’s death by guillotine during the Reign of Terror. For the point, name this French chemist who disproved phlogiston theory, devised the law of the conservation of mass, and named oxygen.---Ralph Anspach developed an “Anti-” version of this game, and Elizabeth Magie created one precursor to this game to teach Henry George’s single-tax system. The name of a subdivision in Margate is misspelled in this game, which was popularized by Charles Darrow. The oﬃcial rules require the use of auctions when direct purchases are declined and do not mention placing any money on Free Parking. The Atlantic City Boardwalk is the most expensive property in, for the point, what real estate-trading board game? Monopoly---One twentieth century president of this country was ousted by Andr´es Rodriguez after winning eight elections. This nation’s ﬁrst president forbade people of European descent from marrying each other, and another president of this country died at the Battle of Cerro Cora. This country defeated Bolivia in the Chaco War and, under Francisco Solano Lopez, lost the War of the Triple Alliance, in which more than half its adult male population was killed. For the point, name this South American country governed from Asuncion.---The Magnuson Act repealed one piece of discriminatory legislation directed at this speciﬁc group of people, who were encouraged to immigrate to the US by the Burlingame Treaty. The 14th Amendment was held to allow these people born in the United States to become U.S. citizens in U.S. v. Wong Kim Ark. In 1882, President Chester Arthur signed an act discriminating against this group, which grew in America during the building of the Transcontinental Railroad. That Exclusion Act targeted, for the point, what group of immigrants, who primarily emigrated to California?---A council held in what is now this country recorded scriptures on a series of palm-leaf manuscripts, held in the Vinaya, Sutta, and Abhidhamma pitakas. This country’s ﬁrst bhikkhuni was Queen Anula of the Anuradhapura kingdom. The Pali Canon was ﬁrst written down in the ﬁrst century BC in this country, where a sacred tooth was brought to Kandy. Theravada Buddhism is followed by most of the Sinhalese people on, for the point, what island country south of India?---L. Jean Louis initiated the investigation into this scandal, in which David Hale claimed that he was pressured to provide a $300,000 loan to Susan McDougal. The failure of the Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan triggered the investigation into this scandal, whose name references a failed speculation deal in the Ozarks. In 1994, Kenneth Starr was appointed to investigate this event, four years before he investigated its central ﬁgure again for his aﬀair with Monica Lewinsky. For the point, name this scandal concerning the real estate investments of then-Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton.---This artist’s One Nation, Indivisible, San Francisco depicts schoolgirls saying the pledge of allegiance. This artist, who chronicled the abandonment of the town of Monticello in the magazine Aperture, gave up a Guggenheim Fellowship to work for the War Relocation Authority in order to document the conditions in Manzanar and other Japanese internment camps. In one of this artist’s works, several children huddle around their mother, Florence Owens Thompson. For the point, name this Great Depression-era photographer of Migrant Mother.---Ivan Konev helped put down this event by launching Operation Whirlwind. Participants in this event demanded criminal investigations into Mihaly Farkas and Matyas Rakosi. Georg Luk´acs and other leaders of this event were given sanctuary in a Yugoslav embassy. Its failure led to the execution of Imre Nagy, who had attempted to remove his country from the Warsaw Pact. For the point, name this 1956 uprising against Soviet control that resulted in Soviet tanks entering Budapest.---Two answers required. Kaiser Wilhelm I settled one dispute between these two countries by establishing a border at the Haro Strait. “Twisting the lion’s tail” was a commonly used technique in elections during the 1800s to inﬂame tensions between these two nations. James K. Polk’s slogan of “Fifty-four forty or ﬁght!” referred to his desire to increase tensions between these two nations over the Oregon territory, which bordered both of these nations. For the point, name these two nations who frequently clashed in the 19th century before developing the “Special Relationship” after World War II.---The uninhabited Henderson Island lies just northwest of this island. Operation Unique led to charges of sexual assault for a signiﬁcant portion of this location’s populace, which included the conviction of Mayor Steven Christian in 2004. Fletcher Christian settled on this island after successfully leading a mutiny against William Bligh. For the point, name this Paciﬁc island, one of the British Overseas Territories, whose population is descended from the crew of the Bounty.---In one work, this man agrees with Lenin that debauching the currency is the easiest way to overturn society; that work attacks an agreement for breaking prior terms, calling it a “Carthaginian peace.” Harvard’s Niall Ferguson apologized after claiming that this man’s sexuality explained his quote “In the long run, we are all dead”. For the point, name this economist who warned about the harshness of the Treaty of Versailles in The Economic Consequences of the Peace.---Approximately one decade prior to this event, residents of the town of Kibeho saw apparitions of the Virgin Mary. Philip Gourevitch accused one pastor during this event of allowing militias to access the Mugonero Complex. The French Military carried out Operation Turquoise in response to this event, which started after President Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a plane crash. The RPF, led by Paul [kuh-GAH-may], took power after, for the point, what mass killings of Tutsis by the Hutus in Kagame 1994?---After a battle in this body of water, the winning commander’s use of Horatio Nelson’s tactics led that battle to be nicknamed “the false Nile.” The USS Spitﬁre and USS Providence were sunk during a battle in this body of water oﬀ the shores of Valcour Island. Thomas Macdonough commanded a victorious battle in this body of water during the War of 1812 oﬀ the shores of Plattsburgh. For the point, name this lake that separates northern New York from northern Vermont, sometimes considered the sixth Great Lake.---The Concession of Evoramonte led to the exile of one ruler of this house after the Liberal Wars. The wife of Charles II of England was a member of this house. This house took power after the Habsburgs were defeated in the Restoration War by the claimed heir of the House of Aviz. The Pombaline reforms were implemented by one politician serving this house, who helped rebuild this house’s capital city after the 1755 Lisbon earthquake. For the point, name this royal house that ruled Portugal from 1640 until it became a republic in 1910.---Wilson Lumpkin oﬀered to give a pardon to a side involved in this court case. The plaintiﬀ in this case co-founded the newspaper Phoenix with Elias Boudinot. This case overturned a state law that prohibited non-Native Americans from coming into contact with Natives on tribal land. The response, “John Marshall has made his decision, now let him enforce it!” followed, for the point, what 1832 Supreme Court case which held that state governments, including the named defendant, could not interfere with the Cherokee Nation?---In June 2015, Greenpeace activists in this state dangled oﬀ the St. John’s Bridge to prevent a Shell Oil icebreaker from sailing to Alaska. Charges of arson on this state’s federal land against Dwight and Steven Hammond led the Citizens for Constitutional Freedom to protest in this state’s city of Burns. Ammon Bundy instigated the armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in, for the point, what Paciﬁc Northwest state?---An attempt to appease participants in this event led to the arrest of Amir Abbas Hoveyda. Leading up to this event, protesters were killed at Jaleh [ZHAH-leh] square after the declaration of martial law. The secret police organisation SAVAK was dissolved after this event. A 2500-year anniversary was controversially celebrated prior to this revolution, in which the Pahlavi Dynasty was overthrown. The Shah was replaced by Ayatollah Khomeini in, for the point, what 1979 revolution that established a religious fundamentalist government in Iran? Islamic Revolution (or Iranian Revolution before “Iran” is read; prompt on 1979---This composer wrote a piece in support of Belgium after its invasion by Germany in World War I, Carillon. He depicted his publisher Augustus Jaeger in the “Nimrod” movement of a work that contains a “hidden theme.” The trio of this composer’s most famous march was used for the coronation of Edward VII as the hymn “Land of Hope and Glory”. For the point, name this composer of the Enigma Variations and a piece often played at graduations, Pomp and Circumstance.---William of Aumale’s forces repelled the army of David I at the Battle of the Standard during this conﬂict. Robert of Gloucester was freed as part of a prisoner exchange after the Rout of Winchester during this conﬂict. The treaty of Wallingford ended this conﬂict, which allowed for the throne to be passed on to Henry II. This war was sparked by a succession crisis due to the death of William Adelin in the White Ship Disaster. For the point, name this 12th century conﬂict that began after King Stephen usurped the English throne from Matilda.---Hannah Arendt wrote a series of “Reﬂections” concerning one crisis in this state, imagining herself as a poor black woman. The 1919 Elaine race riots in this state led to the case of Moore v. Dempsey, which reversed the results of mob-dominated trials in this state. Hattie Carraway, the ﬁrst woman to serve a full term as a U.S. Senator, served this state from 1932 to 1944. Executive Order 10730 deﬁed the then-Governor of this state, Orval Faubus, by forcefully integrating a high school in this state’s capital. For the point, name this southern state, the home state of the “Little Rock Nine.”---The Seitz decision granted this right to Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally, and Jim Hunter exercised it after Charlie Finley refused him an annuity payment. The reserve clause prevented this status, which Curt Flood sought after a trade to the Phillies. The current collective bargaining agreement grants this status only to players with six or more years of service. For the point, name this right of athletes to negotiate with any team when not under contract.---One holder of this position referred to the middle class as “the forgotten people.” In 1975, John Kerr dismissed one holder of this position in favour of Malcolm Fraser, prompting a constitutional crisis. One holder of this position implemented gun control laws in response to the Port Arthur Massacre. The longest holder of this position was Robert Menzies. For the point, name this position currently held by Malcolm Turnbull after he won the Liberal Party leadership from Tony Abbott. Prime Minister of Australia---This entity twice refused to give Phillip V money to put in the royal coﬀers. This entity was founded to negotiate a conﬂict between Phillip the Fair and Pope Boniface VIII. It was inactive between 1614 and 1789, after which Louis XVI was urged to summon this entity to discuss economic reform; shortly thereafter, one section of this body named itself the National Assembly and issued the Tennis Court Oath. For the point, name this tripartite French advisory body, composed of representatives from the clergy, nobility, and everyone else. ´---This author wrote the pro-segregation essay “The Briar Patch” but later changed his views, publishing interviews with civil rights leaders in Who Speaks For the Negro ? He promoted close reading in a book co-authored with Cleanth Brooks, Understanding Poetry. A novel by this man, narrated by political reporter Jack Burden, was based on the career of Louisiana governor Huey Long. For the point, name this Southern writer who promoted New Criticism and wrote about Willie Stark in All The King’s Men.---This man’s doctoral dissertation improved on McMillan’s work on boundary functions. This man, who was one subject of Henry Murray’s experiments, frequently used the abbreviation “FC” for Freedom Club. Sacramento computer store owner Hugh Scrutton was the ﬁrst fatality caused by this man, who was apprehended after his brother David recognized his writing style in the 1995 manifesto Industrial Society and Its Future. For the point, name this anarchist who targeted universities and airlines with his mail bombs, giving him the alias “Unabomber.”---This company’s CFO, Erin Callan, was named its “Straight Shooter” in 2006. George Herbert Walker IV, the second cousin of George W. Bush, served as chairman for Neuberger Berman, the investment management wing of this company. This ﬁrm’s CEO, Dick Fuld, received over $500 million in compensation before this ﬁrm’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2008, the largest bankruptcy ﬁling in history. For the point, name this defunct ﬁnancial services ﬁrm, a former member of the Big Five with Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, and Bear Stearns.---A monument to this battle contains an obelisk with one niche that is missing a ﬁgure. Daniel Morgan led a group of American snipers during this battle, which contained the Battles of Bemis Heights and Freeman’s Farm. Benedict Arnold received his leg wound at this battle, and after this battle, General Burgoyne surrendered to Horatio Gates. For the point, name this 1777 Revolutionary War battle in New York, which resulted in France’s entry into the war. Saratoga (accept Battle of Bemis Heights and/or Freeman’s Farm before---This city’s increase in the production of linen after the American Civil War earned it the nickname “Linenopolis.” A few days after the Milltown Cemetery shooting in this city, two corporals were attacked and killed after accidentally driving into a funeral procession. The Shankill Butchers carried out murders of Catholic civilians in this city. Bloody Friday was carried out in this city by the Provisional IRA, in the middle of a period of violence between Catholics and Protestants known as the Troubles. For the point, name this capital of Northern Island.---Leonard Volk created a plaster mask of this man’s face before his death, now often used as a model. A statue of this man subtitled “The Man” depicts him rising from a chair and was created by Augustus Saint-Gaudens for this man’s namesake “Park” in Chicago. Another depiction of this man was carved by the Piccirilli brothers and designed by Daniel Chester French for his seated memorial, which is located opposite the Washington Monument. For the point, name this president, whose memorial and image are featured on the American penny.---This leader launched the Anti-Spiritual Pollution Campaign and described his economic policies as to “seek truth from facts.” After the death of Zhou Enlai, this man was put under house arrest after being accused of organizing protests. This man, who obtained power after he forced Hua Guofeng to resign, authorized the use of force in the June Fourth incident. For the point, name this Paramount Leader of China during the 1980s who initiated various pro-market reforms and led during the Tienanmen Square protests.---A melody from this piece was used in the anthem “Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia,” which has made the modern playing of this composition controversial. A solo timpani plays a falling octave motif at the opening of this work’s scherzo. Its ﬁnal movement, in which cellos and basses “reject” melodies from the ﬁrst three movements, has been called a “symphony within a symphony.” A performance of this work at the fall of the Berlin Wall changed a word of its Friedrich Schiller text to “freedom”. For the point, what ﬁnal Ludwig van Beethoven symphony ends with the “Ode to Joy?”---One ruler with this name was known as the Stupor Mundi. One ruler with this name was defeated at the Battle of Legnano by the Lombard League and drowned in the Saleph River during the Third Crusade. Another ruler with this name refused to recognize the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713, starting the War of Austrian Succession and occupying Silesia. For the point, give this name of a Holy Roman Emperor nicknamed “Barbarossa” and a “great” king of Prussia. Frederick [or Friedrich] (accept Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick Barbarossa,---The Pact of Espino Negro ended one civil war in this country. The American government refused to recognize this country’s participation in the Esquipulas peace talks, which it hosted. The death of Pedro Chamorro led to demonstrations in this country against the regime of the Somoza family. This country’s current president, Daniel Ortega, is a member of the Sandinistas. For the point, name this Latin American country which received arms from the Reagan Administration during the Iran-Contra Aﬀair.---This thinker described the separation of the patient’s identity and body as the “medical gaze.” One of the title concepts of this thinker’s works makes individuality cellular, organic, genetic, and combinatory. This thinker argued that the Renaissance regarded the title trait as a form of intellectual giftedness, and he used Jeremy Bentham’s Panopticon to describe the ideal modern prison system. For the point, name this French philosopher who wrote Madness and Civilization and Discipline and Punish.---This ruler forced Francis I to sign the Treaty of Madrid after his victory at the Battle of Pavia. The revolt of the Comuneros broke out after Adrian of Utrecht ruled one of this ruler’s kingdoms in his absence. This ruler signed the Peace of Augsburg with the Schmalkaldic League. After the death of Ferdinand II, this ruler co-ruled with his mother Joanna the Mad. For the point, name this ruler who was both King of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor in the 16th century.---While studying these things, Georges Cuvier came up with his idea of catastrophism and William Smith came up with the idea of faunal succession. Edward Drinker Cope and Othniel Charles Marsh engaged in a late 1800s “war” to try and discover more of these things than the other. Locations where these things are plentiful include the Ediacara Hills and the Burgess Shale, the latter of which records the remnants of the Cambrian Explosion. For the point, name these preserved remains of long deceased organisms.---Louis Nolan died in this conﬂict, whose survivors “lack their food tonight” and “lacked a bed for the night” according to one poem. Another poem about this conﬂict describes riding into the “jaws of Death” and “mouth of Hell.” That poem describes the “half a league, half a league, half a league onward” that a group of six hundred rode “into the valley of Death” near the city of Sevastopol. The Battle of Balaclava was part of, for the point, what war commemorated in Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s The Charge of the Light Brigade, fought over Russian control of the Black Sea? Crimean War (accept the Charge of the Light Brigade, the Battle of Balaclava, or the---One leader with this surname had an extravagant $2 million wedding with Michele Bennett. Another leader with this surname believed that Clement Barbot [bar-boh] had transformed into an animal and therefore ordered the death of all black dogs in his country. That leader with this surname created the Tonton Macoute [tone-tone mah-COOT] secret police force in 1959. For the point, give this surname of “Bebe Doc” and “Papa Doc,” a pair of 20th century Haitian dictators.---This nation’s only natural harbor is protected by Pelican Point. Otto von Bismarck’s successor added a corridor to this territory allowing it to access the Zambezi River. The Caprivi Strip is part of this country whose southern border is the Orange River and which gained control of Walvis Bay in 1994 from its former ruler, South Africa. For the point, name this arid nation in southwestern Africa where Hage Geingob [HA-gey GINN-gob] leads from Windhoek. Namibia---This man’s government passed Law 2013-404, legalizing same-sex marriage in his country. His country joined the MNLA in ﬁghting al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb with Operation Serval. In January 2015, this former mayor of Tulle declared that his country was in a state of “economic emergency” but would not call into question the 35 hour work week. This man won a 2012 election against the UMP incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. For the point, name this current socialist President of France.---
Pickett’s Charge (prompt on Battle of Gettysburg before mentioned)---Sweden---Battle of Salamis---Flint (accept descriptions of the Flint water crisis)---death penalty (accept capital punishment and other equivalents; accept lethal injection) Page 1 ---Holocaust (prompt on World War II)---Imelda Marcos (prompt on Marcos)---Mexico---Vietnam War---Komnenos dynasty Page 2 ---(American) football---Homestead Act of 1862---Connecticut Colony---French Guiana (or Guyane fran¸caise)---Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Br`ede et de---Page 3 ---Ferdinand [or Fernando]---Dame Judi Dench---F(rederik) W(illem) de Klerk---New York City (accept New Amsterdam before mentioned)---Robert “Fighting Bob”---Page 4 ---Council(s) of Nicaea (accept word forms, like Nicene Council(s))---Taft-Hartley Act (or Labor Management Relations Act of 1947)---France---Senegal---Fritz Page 5 ---West Germany (prompt on Germany)---Juan Peron (prompt on Peron)---abortion (prompt on birth control; accept more speciﬁc answers)---Battle of Borodino---Page 6 ---Jewel Voice Broadcast (accept equivalent descriptions for broadcast; accept Gyokuon-hoso; prompt on descriptions until “announced” is read)---Philadelphia, Pennsylvania---Slaves of Thomas Jefferson (prompt on partial answer; prompt on African-Americans)---Antoine Lavoisier---Page 7 ---Paraguay---Chinese-Americans (prompt on Asian(-American)s)---Sri Lanka---Whitewater scandal---Dorothea Lange Page 8 ---Hungarian Revolution of 1956---United States of America and the United Kingdom (accept USA or America and UK Britain; do not accept or prompt on “England”) or Great---Pitcairn Island(s)---John Maynard Keynes---1994 Rwandan genocide Page 9 ---Lake Champlain---House of Braganza---Worcester v. Georgia---Oregon---Revolution) Page 10 ---Sir Edward Elgar---The Anarchy---Arkansas---free agency in Major League Baseball (accept word forms)---Page 11 ---Etats Estates-General or States General or -G´en´eraux---Robert Penn Warren---Theodore “Ted” Kaczynski (accept Unabomber before mention)---Lehman Brothers---Battle of mentioned) Page 12 ---Belfast---Abraham Lincoln---Deng Xiaoping---Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony #9 in D minor, opus 125 (or ”Choral” Symphony; “Beethoven” and “symphony” are not necessary after each is mentioned)---or Frederick the Great) Page 13 ---Nicaragua---Michel Foucault---Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (or Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles)---fossils---Siege of Sevastopol before they are mentioned) Page 14 ---Duvalier [doo-vahl-ee-ay] (accept Jean-Claude and/or Francois Duvalier)---Republic of---Francois Hollande Page 15---