B---False---38
In this war, forces under Johann von Werth were entrenched near Allerheim at a battle where Franz von Marcy was killed. The Truce of Ulm forced Maximilian I of Bavaria to break his alliance with Ferdinand III during this war. At the Battle of Zusmarshausen, the last battle of this war, a combined Franco-Swedish army completely destroyed the Holy Roman Empire’s forces. Gustavus Adolphus died at the Battle of Lutzen during, for the point, what war that ended with the 1648 Peace of Westphalia?---This man wrote a Book of Squares that was devoted to analyzing second degree Diophantine equations and dedicated to his friend, Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II. This man pioneered the use of the horizontal bar in modern fraction notation, and his book Liber Abaci popularized the Arabic numeral system in the Western world. The golden ratio is approximated by successive ratios in a pattern studied by this man. For the point, name this Italian mathematician who lends his name to a sequence beginning 1, 1, 2, 3, 5.---Some of those wounded in this battle were cared for at Marshall House by the Baroness Frederika Riedesel. This battle included a diversionary attack at Fort Clinton and Fort Montgomery. Daniel Morgan organized marksmen at this battle, in which Benedict Arnold’s heroics at several redoubts are remembered by a “Boot” monument. Freeman’s Farm and Bemis Heights were battlegrounds of this battle, a crucial loss for John Burgoyne. For the point, name this 1777 battle in upstate New York that convinced the French to assist in the American Revolution.---Economist Henry George was an advocate for an “economy wide” tax on this resource. In The Tragedy of the Commons, Garret Hardin argued that government intervention and privatization were needed to manage this resource, which the Physiocrats claimed was the sole source of wealth in society. Labor, capital, and this resource are the primary factors of production. For the point, name this economic resource, large plots of which are used in agriculture.---This country’s early 20th century star athletes included cyclist Willy Arend and long jumper Luz Long. In 2019, America’s Major League Soccer lifted a ban on imagery inspired by the Iron Front, an anti-fascist movement that developed in this country in the 1930s. The ﬁrst Olympic torch relay was hosted by this country and ﬁlmed by Leni Riefenstahl for her ﬁlm Olympia ; Jesse Owens won four gold medals at those games. For the point, name this host country of the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. Germany (accept the German Empire; accept Weimar Germany or the Weimar Republic;---This leader overcame a coup when he was victorious at Khanwa against Rana Sanga’s Rajput Confederation. In his early career, this leader lost control of both Samarkand and Ferghana to his rival Muhammad Shaybani, though he was able to claim Kabul from Ulugh Begh. This man was victorious against Ibrahim Lodi at the Frist Battle of Panipat, allowing him to establish his empire. For the point, name this father of Humayun and founder of the Mughal Dynasty.---French painter Rosa Bonheur turns away from Napoleon to paint this man in an 1896 advertisement showing Bonheur’s depiction of this man on horseback. This entrepreneur advertised “Real Sons of the Soudan” and “Genuine Cuban Insurgents” as opponents for staged battles in performances of his “Congress of Rough Riders of the World,” which included Sitting Bull and Annie Oakley. For the point, name this American soldier and showman who organized a namesake Wild West Show.---A pig farmer from this country led a rebellion against the Mongols and was named Ivaylo the Radish. A writer from this country, Georgi Markov, was assassinated via a ricin pellet ﬁred from an umbrella. Bashi-bazouk forces massacred this country’s civilians in the April Uprising, leading William Gladstone to denounce this country’s “Horrors.” This country gained autonomy from the Ottoman Empire in the Treaty of San Stefano. Todor Zhivkov once led, for the point, what Balkan country governed from Soﬁa?---A series of publications by James Callender prompted this man to expose a blackmail scheme involving over $1,300 paid by this man to John Reynolds in order to keep an aﬀair with his wife Maria secret. This man, Thomas Jeﬀerson, and James Madison orchestrated the Compromise of 1790, in which state debts were assumed by the federal government and the capital was moved south; the assumption was key to this Cabinet member’s plan for reforming the US economy. For the point, name this ﬁrst US Secretary of the Treasury.---Despite facing a numerically greater force, this man’s forces emerged victorious at the Battle of Pun´a against natives and at the Battle of Las Salinas against Diego de Almagro. After the Battle of Cajamarca, this man took a leader hostage when that leader threw a Bible to the ground. This explorer later collected rooms full of gold and silver as ransom, but killed that leader, Atahualpa, anyway. For the point, name this Spanish conquistador who conquered the Inca Empire. Pizarro Gonz´alez---A piece of music from this country provided the tune for the national anthem of Biafra. For much of the 1990s and 2000s, until the appointment of Gustavo Dudamel, the LA Philharmonic’s music director was a man from this country. A nationalist piece from this country was a protest against Russian censorship, and was written by the composer of The Swan of Tuonela. For the point, name this home country of Esa-Pekka Salonen and Jean Sibelius, who based some of his compositions on its national epic, the Kalevala. Finland---In this country, peasantry wielding staﬀs called nabbut agitated in the 19th century during the Ahmad Revolt. An Albanian Pasha seized control of this modern-day country in the early 1800s, starting a lucrative cotton growing industry. This one-time Britsh protectorate had its monarchy overthrown in 1952 by the Free Oﬃcers Movement. Farouk was the last king of, for the point, what North African country whose ﬁrst presidents were Mohammed Naguib and Gamal Abdel Nasser?---Before this event, administrator Thomas Paine met with Ralph Abernathy, whose group protested this event as a “misplaced priority” of the government. William Saﬁre wrote a conditional speech in case of disaster during this event; that speech was not delivered by Richard Nixon. This event, which attained a national goal set in 1961, featured Michael Collins manning the command module Columbia while the Eagle landed at Tranquility Base. For the point, name this NASA mission in which Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong landed on the Moon.---A series of reforms named for this dynasty reformed courts called Royal Audiences to give more power to peninsulares. This dynasty came to power after the eventual death of a ruler who “baﬄed Christendom by continuing to live,” Charles II. The ascension of this dynasty led to a war in which the [BLEN-em]. This dynasty gained power in one country Duke of Marlborough won the Battle of Blenheim after the Treaty of Utrecht conﬁrmed the ascension of Philip V. For the point, name this dynasty that ruled Spain after the Hapsburgs.---Early in his career, this man successfully defended his country from Isidro Barradas and earned the nickname “Hero of Tampico.” This man, who came to power after signing the Plan of Casa Mata in 1822 to overthrow Agustin Iturbide [ee-TOOR-bee-day], lost his leg during the Pastry War against France. Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie were killed in ﬁghting against the forces of, for the point, what Mexican leader who was victorious at the Alamo?---The ﬁrst printing press in Britain’s North American colonies was installed at this school. After emigrating to the US, Louis Agassiz became a geology professor at this university, whose presidents have included Increase Mather. This university’s undergraduates live in houses named for the Lowell family, the Adams family, and John Winthrop. Radcliﬀe College was the sister school of, for the point, what Ivy League university along the Charles River in Cambridge, Massachusetts?---Lord George Bentinck and this politician led the Parliamentary opposition to the repeal of the Corn Laws. This politician controversially took direct loans from Lionel de Rothschild to purchase shares of the Suez Canal. This man, who represented Britain at the Congress of Berlin, granted his friend Queen Victoria the title of Empress of India by passing the Royal Titles Act. For the point, name this Conservative Prime Minister of Jewish descent, a rival of William Gladstone.---The social democratic United Farmers held power in this province between 1921 and 1935, and the New Democrats under Rachel Notley swept to power in 2015. This province, the western part of the proposed Buﬀalo province, grew via oil and gas revenue after the Athabasca Oil Sands were harvested in the 20th century. Its economy was once dominated by farming and ranching, a heritage reﬂected in an annual “Stampede” held in its capital. For the point, name this Canadian province, between British Columbia and Saskatchewan, where Fort Calgary was built.---Rooms of the British Museum dedicated to this empire hold replicas of the Balawat Gates and artifacts recovered from a royal palace at Nimrud. King Menahem of Israel paid tribute to this empire’s ruler Tiglath-Pileser III. This empire fell to a coalition of Babylonians and Medes after the death of its ﬁnal strong ruler, Ashurbanipal. Nineveh was the capital of, for the point, what Mesopotamian empire that originated around the city of Assur?---Traders in this state developed a pidgin language called Haida Jargon to speak with Europeans. This state’s proposed Gravina Island Bridge to Ketchikan gained the nickname “Bridge to Nowhere” by critics of Senator Ted Stevens. This state’s agricultural Kenai Peninsula is bordered by an arm of the Cook Inlet. The Stampede Trail is in a park in this state whose name means “The High One” in Athabaskan. A historic dog race ends at the city of Nome in, for the point, what state that contains Denali and the city of Anchorage?---This man besieged a “Straw City” at Alessandria while trying to depose Pope Alexander III, and failed to negotiate peace at Montebello. Four Bolognese jurists ruled that this man had divine right in the Diet of Roncaglia. This emperor supported antipope Victor IV and feuded with the Lombard League. This emperor diverted some of Saladin’s forces from the Battle of Acre after joining a coalition with Philip Augustus and Richard the Lionheart. For the point, name this Holy Roman Emperor who drowned in the Third Crusade and was nicknamed for his red beard.---This case’s ruling prompted Virginia governor Thomas Stanley to create the Gray Commission. The massive resistance movement began in response to this ruling, which was inﬂuenced by a series of doll tests carried out by Kenneth and Mamie Clark. This case’s ruling, which was to be implemented with “all deliberate speed,” overturned the doctrine of “separate from equal” from Plessy v. Ferguson. For the point, name this 1954 Supreme Court case that ruled that segregated public schools were unconstitutional.---In this novel, Gaspard signs his name as “Jacques” in a note that he leaves as a political gesture after murdering a nobleman who had run over and killed his son with a carriage. A doctor in this novel obsessively takes up shoe-making during an eighteen-year imprisonment in the Bastille. Sydney Carton is executed after switching places with a condemned aristocrat in, for the point, what Charles Dickens novel set during the French Revolution?---In an attempt to justify this event, operatives led by Alfred Naujocks took over a radio station and sent an inﬂammatory message during the Gleiwitz Incident. “Case White” was the plan for this event, which called for an assault from three directions, including from East Prussia. The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact secured Soviet involvement in this event, which began on September 1, 1939. For the point, name this act of German aggression that triggered World War II and resulted in the capture of Warsaw.---This leader’s comment that one should check their complacency as often as washing their face is quoted in a chapter called “Criticism and Self-Criticism.” This man succeeded Otto Braun after a disagreement in strategy at the Zunyi Conference. This leader, who used the Battle of Luding Bridge as propaganda, took power in a campaign that included the Long March and attempted to purge Western ideals through the Cultural Revolution. For the point, name this founder of the communist People’s Republic of China.---This historical period was characterized by the Dunning School as a failure, and historian Eric Foner called it “America’s Unﬁnished Revolution.” Hiram Revels represented Mississippi as the ﬁrst African-American Senator during this period, in which carpetbaggers and scalawags gained control of local politics in the South. The election of Rutherford B. Hayes and the Compromise of 1877 ended, for the point, what era in which the South was re-incorporated into the United States after the Civil War? Reconstruction---Some accounts claim that Tigellinus contributed to this event, as it supposedly continued at his estate after temporarily stopping. Following this event, Celer and Severus began construction of the Domus Aureus. This 64 AD event was used to justify the persecution of Christians. Tacitus writes that the emperor was in Antium during this event, which began in some shops lining the Circus Maximus. For the point, name this catastrophe, during which Nero supposedly played the ﬁddle.---In 212 BC, an annual festival to this deity gave the Romans under Marcus Claudius Marcellus an opportunity to capture Syracuse in which Archimedes was killed. A queen named after this goddess sank her own ships to escape from the Battle of Salamis. A marble temple dedicated to this goddess was located in Ephesus and listed among the Seven Wonders of the World. Agamemnon sacriﬁced his daughter, Iphigenia, during the Trojan War to appease, for the point, what Greek goddess of hunting, the twin sister of Apollo?---In January 2018, Emmanuel Macron announced that this object will leave France for the ﬁrst time in 950 years, going on public display at the British Museum in London. Queen Matilda and Bishop Odo are the people primarily believed to have commissioned this work, which includes a probable depiction of Halley’s Comet. This work, whose surviving portion is 225 feet long and 1.5 feet high, is technically an embroidery. The Battle of Hastings is depicted in, for the point, what 11th century “tapestry?”---This event led the US government to carry out its ﬁrst execution of a woman, a boarding house owner. Major Henry Rathbone was struck by a dagger during this event, which was timed to coincide with Lewis Powell’s failed attempt to eliminate William Seward. After ﬁring his weapon, the perpetrator of this event allegedly shouted “sic semper tyrannis” while making his escape. For the point, name this 1865 event perpetrated by John Wilkes Booth at Ford’s Theatre.---One member of this European ethnicity was Argentine president Edelmiro Julian Farrell, who enabled Juan Peron’s rise to power. Another member of this ethnicity was Paraguayan First Lady Eliza Lynch, the wife of Paraguayan dictator Francisco Solano Lopez. Another member of this ethnicity ruled Chile from 1817 to 1823 after the Chilean War of Independence; that man was Bernardo O’Higgins. For the point, name this European ethnicity whose members fought in the Mexican-American War in St. Patrick’s Battalion. Irish people (accept people from Ireland)---
Thirty Years’ War---Fibonacci (accept Leonardo of Pisa; prompt on Leonardo)---Battle of Saratoga (accept Battle of Bemis Heights before mentioned; prompt on Battle of Freeman’s Farm before mentioned)---land (prompt on property)---accept Nazi Germany) Page 1 ---Babur (accept Zahir ud-Din Muhammad)---Buffalo Bill (accept Colonel William Frederick Cody; prompt on “Bill”)---Bulgaria---Alexander Hamilton---Francisco---Page 2 ---Egypt---Apollo 11 landing (accept answers related to the ﬁrst Moon landing until “Moon” is read, and prompt after; prompt on just “moon landing”; prompt on “Apollo (missions)” alone)---House of Bourbon---Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna (or Antonio de Padua Maria Severino L´opez de Santa Anna y P´erez de Lebr´on)---Harvard College (accept Harvard University) Page 3 ---Benjamin Disraeli (accept Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsﬁeld)---Alberta---Assyrian Empire (accept additional information, such as “Neo-Assyrian”; do not accept or prompt on “Syria”)---Alaska---Frederick I Holy Roman Emperor (or Frederick Barbarossa; prompt on Frederick alone) Page 4 ---Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas---A Tale of Two Cities---Nazi Germany’s invasion of Poland (prompt on descriptions of the start of World War II before mentioned)---Mao Zedong (or Mao Tse-tung)---Page 5 ---Great Fire of Rome (accept any answer that suggests Rome was on ﬁre; prompt on partial answers)---Artemis (accept Diana)---Bayeux Tapestry---assassination (or murder, shooting, etc.) of Abraham Lincoln Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Page 6---