B---False---42
Jess Gorkin of Parade Magazine proposed a system that was implemented after this event. It ended with a secret agreement to remove Jupiter installations in Turkey, which convinced Nikita Khrushchev to dismantle his own weapon systems. The Washington-to-Moscow hotline was created after, for the point, what thirteen-day crisis in which the U.S. blockaded an island nation over the placement of nuclear weapons?---One person of this name was accused of being far less attractive than Hans Holbein the Younger made her seem. Another woman with this name had her betrothal to Henry Percy broken by Cardinal Wolsey, and was executed on charges of incest with her brother George; that woman with this name was the mother of Elizabeth I. For the point, give this name shared by Henry VIII’s second and fourth wives, Boleyn and Cleves.---One photograph from this period shows a billboard that reads “There’s no way like the American way,” while another shows Florence Thompson with three of her children. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation was established during this period, as the Great Plains were struck by “black blizzards” as part of the Dust Bowl. For the point, name this period of economic downturn that started with the Stock Market Crash of 1929.---The Koori and Noongar are two subgroups of these people. A false legend claims that, until a 1967 constitutional referendum, these people were legally classiﬁed as “fauna;” that referendum did stop the exclusion of these people from their country’s census. In 2008, Kevin Rudd apologized for the “Stolen Generations,” in which children of these people were taken by the state. Over 100,000 of these people currently live in New South Wales. For the point, give this term for people indigenous to Australia before British colonization.---With Wilhelm Jordan, this man names a method, used on matrices of coeﬃcients taken from a system of equations, that creates a row-reduced matrix. After the Sun got in the way, this man used observations by Giuseppe Piazzi to determine the orbit of Ceres, the ﬁrst discovered asteroid, in 1801. For the point, name this German mathematician, the namesake of the normal distribution in statistics and two of Maxwell’s four equations. Gauss---This man once dueled Humphrey Marshall over the wearing of British suits. James Birney’s third-party presidential bid cost this man crucial votes in New York in 1844, when he ran on a ticket with Theodore Frelinghuysen. This man joined John Quincy Adams in negotiating the Treaty of Ghent, then was named Secretary of State in an 1824 “corrupt bargain” with Adams. For the point, name this “Great Compromiser,” a 19th century Speaker of the House from Kentucky.---To impress Diane Nguyen 2004’s The Day After Tomorrow, a tornado destroys it; so does the original Sharknado, as it scales Mount Lee. It originally referenced a housing development in the nearby hills and included the word “LAND”. For the point, name this 45-foot-tall sign, a cultural landmark overlooking, and advertising the name of, the ﬁlm district of Los Angeles.---Piedmontese forces crushed the Chevalier de Belle Isle at the Battle of Assietta during this conﬂict, which saw the British beaten at Fontenoy by Maurice de Saxe. The Battle of Dettingen, fought in this war, was the last time a British monarch led troops into battle, and Louisbourg was captured during this war’s American phase, King George’s War. The War of Jenkin’s Ear was a subsidiary of this war, which was sparked by Frederick the Great’s invasion of Silesia. For the point, name this war, caused by resistance to the Pragmatic Sanction and the inheritance of Empress Maria Theresa.---This man’s 1987 visit to Chile led to the decline of Augusto Pinochet’s rule after describing it as “dictatorial,” and he later ordered the dismissal of Marcel Lefebvre [le-feh-vrah] from an organization he ruled. Grey Wolves member Mehmet Ali Agca [ah-zha] attempted to assassinate this man as part of the Bojinka Plot. He supported the fall of Communism in his home nation by supporting the trade union Solidarity. For the point, name this Polish Pope who was succeeded by Benedict XVI. John Paul II or Karl Jozef Wojtyla---In this year, a December 12th “safe harbor” deadline caused the Supreme Court to deliver a ruling one day after hearing oral arguments. In this year’s election, the runner-up candidate requested that four counties, including Broward, recount ballots amidst technical problems caused by “hanging chads.” Ralph Nader’s Green Party candidacy in this year may have contributed to a narrow Democratic loss in Florida. For the point, name this presidential election, essentially decided by the Supreme Court’s decision in Bush v. Gore.---This composer of incidental music for Sigurd Jorsalfar wrote a suite for string orchestra “in olden style” to celebrate Ludwig Holberg. His incidental music for another play includes a section in which a B minor theme increases in speed and volume as the title character is chased by trolls and goblins. For the point, “Morning Mood” and “In The Hall of the Mountain King” are from what Norwegian composer’s Peer Gynt Suite ? Grieg---Actor Joseph Estrada stole $80 million as this country’s president but was pardoned by his successor, Gloria Arroyo. Corazon Aquino rose to lead this country via the People Power Revolution, ending a kleptocracy in which this nation’s First Lady amassed a large collection of shoes. Imelda and Ferdinand Marcos once ruled, for the point, what Asian island country where the President resides in Malacan˜an Palace in Manila?---In the ancient Olympic games, awards for this event were not given to the athletes themselves, but their ﬁnancial supporters. Those who participated in this activity in Rome were once divided into four factions: red, green, blue and white. A major location for this sport lay between the Aventine and Palatine Hills, while another was commissioned by Domitian. The winner of this activity received a laurel crown, and could command a quadriga. The Circus Maximus often hosted, for the point, what Roman sport involving horse-drawn vehicles?---This President sent John Coﬀey and John Eaton to negotiate the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek. This man ﬁred Robert Randolph for embezzling from the Navy, and Richard Lawrence made this man the ﬁrst U.S. President to be the subject of an attempted assassination. He appointed Roger Taney to the Supreme Court and fought with Nicholas Biddle over the Second Bank of the United States. The Indian Removal Act was passed by, for the point, what seventh U.S. President?---One of these documents with “eight legs” was part of the civil service exam in the Ming dynasty. One work in this form describes the arithmetic and geometric growth rates of food production and population, respectively, and was written by Robert Malthus. This literary genre includes two, on Criticism and on Man, by Alexander Pope, and one Concerning Human Understanding by John Locke. Michel de Montaigne [mon-TAYN] invented, for the point, what type of argumentative, scholarly writing often performed by students applying to colleges?---In November 2015, bomb threats grounded two Air France ﬂights leaving this city’s airport, where a TSA oﬃcer was shot in 2013. In 2015, a threat that 33 “comrades” had planted bombs and timed nerve gas agents claimed to target every school in this city’s Uniﬁed District, causing the school board and Mayor Eric Garcetti to close over 1,000 schools. For the point, name this California city where the Millennium Plot, an attack on LAX Airport, was foiled in 2000. Los Angeles (or L.A.)---One man replaced Ann Richards in this position after rumors that Richards’ staﬀ was “dominated by lesbians” were spread by a campaign run by Karl Rove. During a Presidential debate, another former holder of this position couldn’t remember a third Cabinet department he would cut. Greg Abbott currently serves in, for the point, what post formerly held by George W. Bush and Rick Perry, the leader of the largest continental U.S. state? Governor of Texas (prompt on partial answer)---Hamid Idris Awate led a struggle for independence against this country, where Mengistu Haile Mariam led the communist Derg military junta. From 1936 to 1941, it was occupied by Italian forces under Benito Mussolini. Rastafarians believe that this country’s former emperor, Haile Selassie [hi-lay se-lah-say], is God incarnate. Eritrea broke away from, for the point, what African country whose capital is Addis Ababa?---Cellist Vedran Smailovi´c was known for performing in ruined buildings during one siege of this city. Artillery blast marks ﬁlled with red resin, known as the “roses” of this city, were caused during a siege that was lifted by the Dayton Accords. Another event in this city prompted the July Crisis, and was orchestrated by Danilo Ilic [ill-itch]. That event saw the death of Sophie of Hohenberg and the arrest of Black Hand member Gavrilo Princip. Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated in, for the point, what city, the capital of Bosnia?---Genghis Khan refused to adopt this religion’s dietary customs after encountering it at Bukhara. The [wee-gur] peoples are Chinese minorities who practice this religion. Article 160 deﬁnes Hui and Uyghur Malay people as following this religion. This religion’s Qiblah was changed in its “Cow” sura to no longer point to Jerusalem, and quotations from this religion’s prophet are collected in hadiths. Shia and Sunni branches make up, for the point, what religion, whose holy book is the Quran?---This country disappointed the June Democracy Movement by postponing democratic reform until after it hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics. One president of this country was convicted due to his role in the Gwangju Massacre. This country has been referred to as the “Miracle on the Han River” due to its economic boom in the 20th century. For the point, name this country which will host the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang on an East Asian peninsula.---This event was instigated by a declaration at the Old South Meeting House that “this meeting can do nothing more to save the country!” The Beaver, Eleanor, and Dartmouth were raided during this event, which took place at Griﬃn’s Wharf. The Intolerable Acts were passed in response to, for the point, what 1773 incident in which members of the Sons of Liberty, dressed as Mohawk Indians, dumped crates into Boston Harbor? Boston Tea Party---Michael Jones suggested founding a Welsh colony in this country’s Chubut Province. The Tehuelche [te-whel-chay] people, who were nicknamed for their large leather shoes, are indigenous to this country’s share of Patagonia. The tallest mountain in the Western Hemisphere, Aconcagua, is located in this nation’s portion of the Andes. Tierra del Fuego at the tip of South America is owned by, for the point, what country with capital Buenos Aires? Argentina---During this event, its subject remembered that he owed Asclepius a rooster and asked Crito to pay the debt. This event, which was depicted at the end of the Phaedo, was required after its subject was found guilty of corrupting the youth of Athens and forced to consume hemlock. For the point, name this event in which the teacher of Plato committed court-ordered suicide.---Colonel John By built one of these in Upper Canada, near modern Ottawa, to help evade American attacks. Another of these was built over the Niagara Escarpment and was known as DeWitt Clinton’s “big ditch.” Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized one of these, which was built without locks, in Egypt, leading to a 1956 crisis. For the point, name these man-made waterways, including the Rideau, Erie, and Suez.---This country’s ﬁrst railway line linked the now-German cities of Altona and Kiel in the disputed territory of Holstein. This country has the longest continuous ruling dynasty in Europe, and its Frederick VII won the First Schleswig War for this country. The Kalmar Union created a personal union under this country’s queen Margaret I with Sweden and Norway. For the point, name this Scandinavian country whose capital is Copenhagen.---One athlete from this country had her silver medal from the 2012 Olympic 800-meter event disputed because of concerns over her true gender. Another athlete from this home of Caster Semenya was found guilty of culpable homicide in 2014, then of murder in 2015, for the death of his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. For the point, name this African country represented by a man who wore Flex-Foot Cheetah racing blades, Oscar Pistorius, who was imprisoned in Pretoria.---A Jean-Antoine Houdon sculpture of this man in his military uniform stands in the rotunda of the Virginia State Capitol Building. Constantino Brumidi created an Apotheosis of this man, who was the subject of Gilbert Stuart’s Lansdowne Portrait. Grand Wood’s painting Parson Weems’ Fable shows this ﬁgure as a child, after he cut down a cherry tree. For the point, name this man, who Emanuel Leutze [LOYT-zuh] painted Crossing the Delaware.---The Act establishing this organization names maximum employment, price stability, and long-term interest rate stability as its three goals. This organization uses monetary policy to meet those goals, as in December 2015 when its Board of Governors announced a quarter-point increase in the federal funds rate. Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke once led, for the point, what central banking system of the United States, now chaired by Janet Yellen? Federal Reserve System (prompt on the Fed)---This crop was processed by the writers of the Lowell Oﬀering and heavily traded in Manchester, England in the 19th century. James Hargreaves improved the processing of this crop by inventing the spinning jenny, and its ﬁbers were separated from its seeds by another machine invented by Eli Whitney. For the point, name this cash crop, called “King” in the pre-Civil War American South, a ﬁber usually spun into yarn.---Prior to the Final Solution, this location was proposed by Franz Rademacher as a destination for European Jews. In this present-day nation, Ranavalona III was the last monarch of the Merina Kingdom; that kingdom was replaced by French colonial rule in 1897 and by the Malagasy Republic in 1958. Antananarivo is the capital of, for the point, what large island country oﬀ the southwest coast of Africa?---
Cuban missile crisis (accept equivalent descriptions)---Anne---Great Depression---Aborigines (or Aboriginal Australians; accept indigenous Australians before mentioned)---Carl Frederic Page 1 ---Henry Clay [win], part of this structure is stolen by a drunken Bojack Horseman. In---the Hollywood(land) Sign (accept Hollywoo Sign)---War of the Austrian Succession---Pope---Election of 2000---Edvard Hagerup Page 2 ---Republic of the Philippines---chariot racing [accept clear knowledge equivalents that mention chariots]---Andrew Jackson---essay (accept any additional information)------Page 3 ---Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia---Sarajevo---Islam---South Korea (or Republic of Korea or ROK; prompt on Korea; do not accept North Korea or the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)------Page 4 ---the death of Socrates (prompt on Phaedo before mentioned; accept descriptive equivalents)---canals (accept Rideau Canal, Erie Canal, or Suez Canal)---Denmark---Republic of South Africa---George Washington---Page 5 ---cotton Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Republic of Madagascar Page 6---