B---False---44
In 1623, an alchemist started manufacturing objects in this country for military use that are still used as instruments today. Avedis Zildjian [zil-jin] worked in this country, the setting of an opera in which Belmont rescues Konstanze from Pasha Selim. Western orchestras imported the triangle, bass drum, and cymbals from this country, the setting of Mozart’s Abduction from the Seraglio. For the point, a craze for what country’s music was inspired by the Janissary military bands?---In November 2016, this country scored its ﬁrst defeat of the New Zealand All Blacks in 111 years in a game held in Chicago. Six fans of this country’s soccer team were killed in the Loughinisland [lock-in-”island”] Massacre during their win over Italy at the 1994 World Cup. An athlete from this nation defeated Eddie Alvarez to capture his sport’s lightweight title, although he had lost his welterweight debut to Nate Diaz in UFC 196. For the point, name this home country of Conor McGregor, who was born in Dublin.---Description acceptable. The planning of this event included a fake polio vaccination program in Bilal Town in an attempt to recover DNA samples. “Geronimo” was controversially used as the code name for this event’s target, whose body was taken to the USS Carl Vinson and buried at sea. This initiative was carried out without the knowledge of President Zardari’s government by Seal Team Six. For the point, name this 2011 military action in Abbottabad, Pakistan, that killed the leader of Al Qaeda.---Flouting of this law in Passamaquoddy Bay prompted fears of rebellion. This legislation reacted to the execution of Jenkin Ratford, who worked for James Barron. This law, prompted by the Chesapeake- Leopard Aﬀair, was replaced by the Non-Intercourse Act, which was in turn replaced with Macon’s Bill No. 2. A political cartoon attacking this legislation depicts the “cursed Ograbme,” a snapping turtle, nicking a man. For the point, name this law that banned all exports in Jeﬀersonian America.---This leader’s admiral, Marcus Agrippa won the Battle of Naulochus to put down a revolt in Sicily. This man publicized the Donations of Alexandria, in which his rival gave Roman land to another power. This man removed Lepidus, a fellow member of the Second Triumvirate, from power after defeating the son of Pompey the Great, and this man later won the battle of Actium against Mark Antony. For the point, name this adopted son of Julius Caesar who changed his name upon becoming the ﬁrst Roman Emperor. Augustus Caesar (or Octavian; accept Gaius Octavius)---Participants in this event were enraged by the hanging of Mangal Pandey at Barrackpore. Lucknow and Cawnpore were besieged at the onset of this event. Bahadur Shah II was accused of aiding this event and exiled to Rangoon, marking the end of the Mughal dynasty. This rebellion led to the establishment of direct British rule and was prompted by the use of bullet grease derived from pork and beef fat. For the point, name this 1857 Indian mutiny of Muslim and Hindu soldiers.---A saint of this name from Nursia is considered the main patron saint of Europe and wrote a book of precepts for monastery life. The ﬁfteenth Pope of this name attempted to mediate peace talks in World War I. The most recent Pope of this name was indoctrinated into the Hitler Youth as a child in Germany. For the point, give this papal name, taken for the sixteenth time by Joseph Ratzinger, whose retirement preceded the leadership of Pope Francis.---This ruler attempted to prevent rebels from erecting barricades by ordering Baron Haussmann to widen his capital’s streets. The Suez Canal was built and opened during the reign of this ruler, who launched the Battle of Solferino to assist Italian uniﬁcation. This ruler was manipulated by the Ems Dispatch into joining a devastating war, and was forced to abdicate after losing at the Battle of Sedan to Prussia. For the point, name this ruler of the Second French Empire, the nephew of a more well known Bonaparte.---This man was criticized by his peers for inciting violence in Los Angeles in response to a raid on Temple 27. This man described the death of John F. Kennedy as “chickens coming home to roost” and advocated for the usage of arms to obtain equality in the “Ballot or the Bullet” speech. Shortly after converting to Sunni Islam and breaking with Elijah Muhammad, this man was assassinated by three agents of the Nation of Islam. For the point, name this Muslim minister of the 1950s and 60s.---Robert Lowie, a graduate of this school, wrote The German People as part of a study funded by the Oﬃce of War Information during World War II. The American Museum of Natural History was used extensively by a member of this school to analyze the Mind of Primitive Man. Alfred Kroeber’s Anthropology was published after his tutelage under Franz Boas at this university, where Ruth Benedict taught for many years. For the point, name this Ivy League university that oﬀered the ﬁrst anthropology degree in the United States from its campus in New York City. Columbia University---This founder of the Hunters of the Alps helped stall an Austrian attack on Trentino at the Battle of Bezzecca. This man met his wife Anita while serving the Republic of Rio Grande del Sol in the Ragamuﬃn War. After forcing Francis II’s retreat to Gaeta, this man won the battle of the Volturnus in his “Expedition of the Thousand.” This man conquered the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies for Victor Emmanuel II during the Risorgimento. For the point, name this leader of the Redshirts and hero of Italian uniﬁcation.---A stone monument built at Galle commemorates this man’s visit to Sri Lanka and describes in three languages how he made oﬀerings to local gods. This man used the Mao Kun map on his travels and defeated pirates at Palembang while passing through Malacca. He obtained elephants and giraﬀes as part of ritual tribute from kingdoms around the Indian Ocean, after the Yongle Emperor ordered this man on explorations aboard enormous ships called junks. For the point, name this Muslim eunuch, an explorer who sailed for the Ming Dynasty.---This city is home to the Barmaley Fountain, which depicts six children dancing around a crocodile. Vasily Zaytsev killed over 200 people while defending this city from an attack that the invaders described as “rat war” due to the close-quarters urban warfare. The Mamayev Kurgan hill overlooks this city, which Friedrich Paulus’ Sixth Army was unable to capture after over ﬁve months of ﬁghting. For the point, name this city where, in 1943, the Red Army decisively defeated the Germans on the Volga River.---One side in this event was forced to ask Quebec governor Lord Dorchester for help after suﬀering defeat at Petersham. An attempted shutdown of courts at Great Barrington and Concord preceded this event, in which Benjamin Lincoln managed to keep the Springﬁeld Armory in federal hands. This event helped spur the end of the Articles of Confederation and the creation of a stronger federal government. For the point, name this 1786 to 1787 uprising of Massachusetts farmers.---This state’s Native American reservations include Crow Creek and Yankton, as well as Pine Ridge, where the AIM occupied a town in 1973. A landmark in this state was originally planned for the Needles and instead created at a site revered as “Six Grandfathers” by the Lakota Sioux. The Wounded Knee Massacre took place in this state, whose Black Hills are the location of a Gutzon Borglum sculpture featuring four portraits. For the point, name this home state of Mount Rushmore. South Dakota---This partner of Robert Wagner and Averell Harriman orchestrated the downfall of Tammany boss Carmine DeSapio in revenge for her son’s defeat in an election for State Attorney General. She promoted the Encampment for Citizenship program on her estate at Hyde Park. This ﬁrst American delegate to the United Nations authored the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and chaired the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women. For the point, name this “First Lady of the World,” the wife of Franklin Delano.---A man in this play compares a dangerous ruler to a serpent’s egg that cannot be allowed to hatch. Another character in this play describes his former friend, noting “The evil that men do lives after them; / The good is oft interred with their bones.” This play includes a funeral oration that begins “Friends, Romans, countrymen,” as well as the non-historical line “Et tu, Brute?” An assassination on the Ides of March is the subject of, for the point, what history play by William Shakespeare?---A naval base in Kittery, Maine, was the primary site of negotiations ending this war, though the treaty is named for a New Hampshire city. The losing side’s Baltic ﬂeet sailed for eight months to assist in this war, then was utterly destroyed in a single day at the Tsushima Strait. The September 1905 Treaty of Portsmouth ended, for the point, what war, fought over port access in Manchuria, between two Asian powers led by Emperor Meiji and Tsar Nicholas II?---A park in this city contains the Rest House, as well as a building designed by Jan Letzel now known as the Genbaku Dome. This city’s Peace Memorial Park also includes a monument based on the story of Sadako Sasaki, who was a victim of “black rain” here. On August 6, 1945, Paul Tibbets piloted the Enola Gay and dropped “Little Boy” over this city. For the point, name this Japanese city, the target of an atomic bombing three days before Nagasaki?---A Board of Trade inquiry into this event was hampered by a recent change to the Defence of the Realm Act, which barred witnesses from testifying about the status of munitions. This event was partially caused by Captain Thomas Turner’s failure to steer in a zig-zag pattern in dangerous waters. William Jennings Bryan resigned as Secretary of State in the aftermath of this event, as the deaths of 124 Americans in it enticed the U.S. to enter World War I. For the point, name this 1915 event in which a British ship was sunk by a German submarine. Lusitania---The capital city of this country’s bid to host the 2024 Summer Olympics was withdrawn after opposition by a member of the Five Star Movement, Mayor Virginia Reggi. This country’s Marche [mar-kay] and Umbria regions were struck by several earthquakes in October 2016. One former Prime Minister of this country founded the company Mediaset and was known for his extravagant “bunga bunga” parties. For the point, name this country currently led by Matteo Renzi and recently led by Silvio Berlusconi.---This project was the focus of the song “Low Bridge,” which speaks of “ﬁfteen years” on its end result. Numerous people died on this project when working in an area known as Montezuma Marsh. Known as “Clinton’s folly” in reference to Governor DeWitt Clinton, this project was oﬃcially completed with a ceremony in which Great Lake water was poured into a harbor. For the point, name this 19th century engineering project that created an artiﬁcial waterway linking New York City to the Great Lakes?---A mutiny against this man at Puerto San Julian was recorded by his assistant Antonio Pigafetta. Charles V funded the voyage of this man, whose expedition lost every ship except for the Victoria. This explorer was killed in the Battle of Mactan by Lapu Lapu in the modern day Philippines, but not before naming a strait between Tierra del Fuego and the South American mainland. For the point, name this Portuguese explorer who led the ﬁrst expedition to circumnavigate the globe.---Spiro Agnew presented one of these animals as a gift to Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia. One of these creatures was kept as a pet by Leo X and named Hanno. One of these animals named Abul Abbas was presented to Charlemagne by Harun al Rashid. Rama IX owned ten of these animals, the last of which died in 2006. These creatures adorn the naval ensign of Thailand, where they are a symbol of royal power. For the point, name these animals who are targeted by ivory poachers.---A storm following this battle allowed one side to launch the Cosmao sorties and reclaim the Neptune. Pierre Villeneuve’s Bucentaure was captured in this battle after Cuthbert Collingwood’s Royal Sovereign joined up with the Victory to split a French and Spanish column. Horatio Nelson was killed by sniper ﬁre in the heat of this battle. For the point, name this 1805 naval battle of the Napoleonic Wars, now commemorated by a namesake square in London. Trafalgar---The four-iwan layout of these structures includes a central courtyard. A “Great” one of these structures at Djenne was built using mudbricks, while another at Cordoba includes an orange orchard and red and white horseshoe arches. Sinan designed an octagonal one of these for Selim II in Edirne. These structures include a mihrab niche in their qibla wall. Minarets are used for calling worshipers to prayer at, for the point, what Islamic places of worship? mosques---This president announced, a week after 22 amateur boxers were killed in a plane crash in Poland, that the U.S. would boycott the upcoming Summer Olympics. This president negotiated with Omar Torrijos to return the canal zone to Panama and mediated peace talks between Egypt’s Anwar Sadat and Israel’s Menachem Begin at Camp David. For the point, name this president whose handling of the Iranian Hostage Crisis probably cost him the 1980 election against Ronald Reagan.---This scientist names a form of relativity based on the assumed experience of a scientist below the deck of a ship; that idea is posed in a debate among Salviati, Sagredo, and Simplicio regarding the Ptolemaic and Copernican systems. This author of the Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems viewed Saturn’s rings and the moons of Jupiter through a telescope of his own design. For the point, name this Italian scientist who was put under house arrest for his promotion of heliocentrism.---This author of a scathing letter to the Hussites captured a vital supply point in the Battle of Beaugency. While attempting to relieve the town of Compiegne [cohm-pee-ehn], this banner-carrier was captured by Burgundian forces. Charles VII was crowned in Reims Cathedral by this ﬁgure. The Bishop Pierre Cauchon organized the trial of this supposed heretic, after which she was burned at the stake. For the point, name this Maid of Orleans and leader of French forces during the Hundred Years War.---Several Asian holders of this title were known as the Hyksos. This title originally referred to the palace, or “Great House,” and the symbol of its authority consisted of a crook and ﬂail. Holders of this title wore two crowns to symbolize their control of the upper and lower parts of their kingdom. Its holders claimed to be a living incarnation of Horus. Cleopatra was the last to hold, for the point, what title given to the divine rulers of Egypt?---The aftermath of this event aﬃrmed Congress’ right to compel testimony via the case McGrain v Daugherty. Thomas Walsh was able to expose this scandal after discovering a $100,000 loan from Edward Doheny. After receiving bribes in exchange for the rights to Elk Hills, Secretary of the Interior Albert Fall became the ﬁrst Cabinet member to be imprisoned in this scandal. Navy oil ﬁelds were leased to private companies in, for the point, what political scandal that rocked Warren G. Harding’s administration? Teapot Dome scandal---
Turkey (accept the Ottoman Empire)---Republic of Ireland---killing of Osama bin Laden (accept either or both names; accept equivalents that mention death, assassination, etc. of Osama bin Laden; accept Operation Neptune Spear) the---Embargo Act of 1807---Page 1 ---Sepoy Mutiny (or equivalents, like revolt or rebellion)---Benedict (accept Saint Benedict of Nursia, Pope Benedict XV and/or XVI)---Napol´eon III (or (Charles)-Louis Napol´eon Bonaparte; do not prompt on Napol´eon alone)---Malcolm X (accept Malcolm Little; accept el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz; do not accept “Malcolm the Tenth”)---Page 2 ---Giuseppe Garibaldi---Zheng He---Stalingrad (accept Volgograd before “Volga River” is mentioned)---Shays’ Rebellion (do not accept Shay Rebellion; the leader was Daniel Shays)---Page 3 ---Eleanor Roosevelt (prompt on Roosevelt)---The Tragedy of Julius Caesar---Russo-Japanese War---Hiroshima---the sinking of the RMS Page 4 ---Italy---Erie Canal---Ferdinand Magellan---elephants---Battle of---Page 5 ---James Earl “Jimmy” Carter---Galileo Galilei (accept either or both)---Joan of Arc (or Jeanne d’Arc)---pharaoh (prompt on “ruler of Egypt” or similar until mentioned) Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Page 6---