B---False---46
This man allegedly told his executioners “I hope that all of you will follow me” as he was killed in Ramla. This man, who brieﬂy lived at 14 Garibaldi Street in Buenos Aires, was attacked while bringing ﬂowers to his wife on their silver wedding anniversary. This man lived under the alias of Ricardo Klement when he was caught by Simon Wiesenthal. Hannah Arendt coined the phrase “banality of evil” to describe this man during his trial in Israel, after which he was executed in 1962. For the point, name this Nazi who organized much of the Holocaust.---In this city, the Independent Commission Against Corruption was created to prosecute the police by Murray MacLehose, who also expanded this city with “New Towns” like Sha Tin that were connected by the Mass Transit Railway. The ﬁnal governor of the city, Chris Patten, returned it to Jiang Zemin following the expiration of a 99-year lease of the New Territories, located north of Kowloon City. For the point, name this colony that was given to China in a 1997 handover and is now a special administrative region near Macau.---A leader of this organization fell from power after he told James Kelso to allow an 1871 march that led to the Orange Riots. This group, which experienced a small revival in the 1950s under Carmine DeSapio, was opposed by the Locofocos in the 1830s and attacked by Samuel Tilden in the 1870s. Al Smith’s political career was fueled by this group, but he did not personally gain from its corruption. This group was depicted as a loose tiger in a Thomas Nast cartoon, and Nast commonly attacked its most famous head. For the point, name this New York Democratic political machine once led by “Boss” Tweed.---Along this peninsula, an attack on the Moevenpick Hotel was one of several 2005 bombings conducted on one country’s Revolution Day. A maneuver known as “The Crossing” was an early part of a plan to take over this peninsula called Operation Badr. A 1979 treaty marked the start of one country’s withdrawal from this peninsula, which contains the tourist city of Sharm el Sheikh. A biblical mountain shares its name with, for the point, what peninsula that, in the Six Day War, was taken by Israel from Egypt? Sinai Peninsula---Nicholas Appert invented canned food after this man oﬀered a hefty reward for any person who invented food preservation. A cake named after this man is the thousand-leaf cake known as mille-feuille [mill fwee]. This man’s cook Dunand [doo-nahn] created the Marengo chicken recipe after this man won the Battle of Marengo; in another victory for this leader, the losing Russian army invented Borodinsky bread in 1812. The Battle of Borodino was won by, for the point, what general who was later exiled to St. Helena after losing at Waterloo? Napoleon Bonaparte (or Napoleon I)---Following the wreck of the San Felipe in this ruler’s country, he ordered the execution of a group of Christians who became known as the 26 Martyrs. This leader, who organized the Council of Five Elders to guide his young son to succeed him, conﬁscated weapons from peasants by ordering a sword hunt in 1588. This leader launched two failed invasions of Korea and served as a soldier under Oda Nobunaga. For the point, name this great uniﬁer of Japan who was succeeded by Tokugawa Ieyasu.---This man’s monk-grandfather gifted him his legendary horse, Babieca, whose name translates to “stupid one.” This general strategically planned his attack at El Cuarte for the end of Ramadan, when his Muslim enemies were at their weakest. This ruler of Valencia grew up in the court of Ferdinand the Great, King of Leon, and he joined the Moors of Zaragoza after his exile in 1080. Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar was the name of, for the point, what national hero of Spain?---Max Stirner and Karl Marx were part of a group named for being “Young” followers of this philosopher. This philosopher argued that the state had an absolute authority in his book Elements of the Philosophy of Right. The Battle of Jena [yay-nuh] was fought while this philosopher, a professor in Jena, ﬁnished a work in which he outlined the master-slave dialectic. For the point, name this German philosopher, the author of The Phenomenology of Spirit.---The sitting president defended an action undertaken by this man on May Day by citing the lack of an “open skies” agreement between the U.S. and European powers. Nikita Khrushchev withdrew from a Four Power Summit in Paris after announcing that this man had been captured by the Soviet Union. The U.S. covered up an action taken by this man by claiming that a weather plane had veered oﬀ course in Turkey. For the point, name this U-2 spy plane pilot who was shot down in 1960.---The Rettig Report studied human rights violations in this leader’s regime. This leader’s secret police operated the Villa Grimaldi torture site and assassinated Orlando Letelier in Washington D.C. The DINA secret police carried out Operation Condor for this leader, who created the Caravan of Death and employed the Chicago Boys to create economic policy. A 1973 coup at La Moneda Palace led to the rule of, for the point, what man who deposed Salvador Allende [eye-EN-day] as leader of Chile?---Future president Franklin Roosevelt once sent a screenplay about this man’s life to Paramount that was rejected by higher-ups. Catherine II said that “[this man] will get to Constantinople” after he entered her service during the Russo-Turkish War. When the HMS Serapis demanded surrender, this captain legendarily said “I have not yet begun to ﬁght!”. For the point, name this “Father of the American Navy,” the captain of the Bonhomme Richard. Jones---A foreign minister from this country died in his pajamas after falling out of a window, but foul play was suspected because claw marks were found on his windowsill. That man served Eduard Benes, the second president of this nation, who issued doctrines expelling Germans and Hungarians before he was overthrown by Klement Gottwald in the Victorious February Coup. Jan Mazaryk was killed in this country, where in 1968 a leader tried to institute “socialism with a human face.” For the point, name this country where the Warsaw Pact invaded to put down Alexander Dubcek’s [doob-check’s] Prague Spring.---Early in the reign of this dynasty, Bamboo Groves in Mist and Rain was painted by artist and poet Guan Daosheng. Wang Meng, one of this dynasty’s Four Great Masters of landscape painting, refused to serve this dynasty’s ruling ethnic group. This dynasty named Taizu its honorary ﬁrst emperor, although it was founded by his grandson, Kublai. For the point, name this Chinese dynasty visited by Marco Polo and founded by the Mongols.---A leader from this country was supported by the song “He killed my ma, he killed my pa, I’ll vote for him.” This country was led for much of the 1980s by a man who was tortured and executed in 1990 by Prince Johnson on live television, Samuel Doe. This country elected Africa’s ﬁrst female head of government, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, in 2005. The American Colonization Society helped establish, for the point, what African country that was founded by American freed slaves?---Dorothy Hodgkin used X-ray crystallography to conﬁrm Edward Abraham’s proposal about this substance’s structure. Howard Florey and Ernst Boris Chain were among the scientists who won a Nobel Prize for their work with this substance. This substance was the preferred treatment for Staphylococcus aureus infections until the bacteria developed a resistance to it. This substance was accidentally discovered by a Scottish scientist who initially called it “mold juice.” For the point, name this antibiotic discovered by Alexander Fleming.---These people were targeted in Logrono after many of them met at places called akelarres. Johann Weyer wrote that these people had mental illnesses but were harmless. Jakob Sprenger and Heinrich Kramer wrote a work titled for the “Hammer of” these people that suggested the use of cold water to ﬁnd them. Thousands of these people, who were believed to not sink in water, died in a “craze” in the 1600s. For the point, name these people who supposedly practiced black magic and were subjected to hunts in cities like Salem. witches---In the 1950s, Morrison-Knudsen replaced a wooden trestle across this body of water with a stone causeway. This lake, which is home to Antelope Island and fed by the Bear and Jordan Rivers, is the largest remnant of the prehistoric Bonneville Lake. A ﬂamingo named Pink Floyd once lived in this lake, whose largest native aquatic life is the brine shrimp. The Paiute tribe lived near, for the point, what largest lake in Utah, known for its extreme salinity?---This city’s citizens were picked up in the Blue Ridge after ambassador Graham Martin convinced the ship to stay behind. The song “White Christmas” signaled the evacuation of this city during Operation Frequent Wind, sparking a mass exodus of refugees called “boat people.” The loss of this city was celebrated as “Reuniﬁcation Day” in the North after the withdrawal of all American personnel. For the point, name this city that was renamed for Ho Chi Minh following the Vietnam War.---This proposal contained the ﬁrst mention of the “federal negative,” by which Congress could override state laws. This proposal, which called for a “council of revision” to maintain the balance of power between three branches of government, was sometimes named for Edmund Randolph and written by James Madison. For the point, name this proposal at the Constitutional Convention that favored the interests of more populous states, as opposed to the New Jersey Plan.---This composer used a repeating A-ﬂat in the left hand to depict nasty weather while on a trip to Majorca [my-yor-kah]. The poetry of Adam Mickiewicz [meetz-keh-vitch] inspired this composer’s four Ballades [bah-LAHDS], and this composer wrote a G-ﬂat major work featuring 16th-note triplets on ´ just the black keys of the piano. The 1830 November Uprising inspired the Revolutionary Etude by, for the point, what Romantic composer whose mazurkas and polonaises were inspired by his home country, Poland?---Following a battle in this war, a monarch ﬂed into the protection of Sultan Ahmed III and sparked the Pruth River Campaign. Johann Patkul engineered this war by creating an alliance with the Treaty of Preobrazhenskoye after ﬂeeing to the court of Augustus the Strong. Despite early victories at Travendal and Narva, Charles XII was crushed at Poltava in this war. For the point, name this early 18th century war in which Peter the Great elevated Russia to a great power by crushing the Swedish Empire. Great Northern War---This thinker was inspired by Lysander Spooner’s The Unconstitutionality of Slavery to break with William Lloyd Garrison after Garrison burned copies of the Constitution. In 1872, this ﬁgure was nominated for Vice President by the Equal Rights Party, pairing him with Victoria Woodhull, the ﬁrst woman to run for President. This man detailed being beaten by Edward Covey and escaping to New York City in one of his autobiographies. For the point, name this former slave who wrote My Bondage and My Freedom and a Narrative of his life.---During this event, the town of Ballinlass was demolished by a landlord who wanted more grazing land, rendering 300 people homeless. This event was worsened by the Gregory Clause, which prohibited anyone owning more than a fourth of an acre from receiving aid. Migrants attempting to escape this event would board “coﬃn ships” to leave the country. Robert Peel ordered the repeal of the Corn Laws in an attempt to combat this event. A million people starved to death in, for the point, what 1845 crop blight on an island west of Britain?---In Norse mythology, one of these creatures advises Sigurd to dig trenches to avoid drowning in a deluge of blood; that creature, Fafnir, was a dwarf who became one of these creatures after hoarding gold. One of these creatures kills and is killed by Beowulf and another of these creatures is killed by the patron saint of England. Costumes of lions and these creatures are used by dancers during Chinese New Year festivities. Saint George legendarily slew, for the point, what type of ﬂying reptile from mythology?---The SALT II [“salt two”] treaty was signed by this President, who then pulled it from consideration by the Senate after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. This President created the Department of Energy to counter an oil crisis that prompted him to claim America was facing a “crisis of conﬁdence” in the “Malaise” speech. This man facilitated the Camp David Accords but failed to end the Iran Hostage Crisis, leading him to lose the election of 1980 to Ronald Reagan. For the point, name this 39th US President, a former peanut farmer from Georgia.---This novel’s narrator remembers how his mother said “The Lord’s will be done” and continued to milk a cow when she heard that he had enlisted in the army. After receiving a head wound, the main character of this novel witnesses the death of the Tall Soldier, Jim Conklin. This novel, which is set during the Battle of Chancellorsville, is about the inexperienced private Henry Fleming. For the point, name this Civil War novel by Stephen Crane. Red Badge of Courage---This man married Stateira II, the captured daughter of a rival who Bessus assassinated after losing to this man. This ruler fought against war elephants in King Porus’s army at the Hydaspes River. The Diadochi fought over this man’s empire after he died in Babylon shortly after turning his armies back from India. Darius III was beaten at Gaugamela and Issus by, for the point, what son of Philip II who ruled Macedonia and a massive ancient empire?---A general from this country met with George Washington in Wethersﬁeld to discuss a potential assault on New York City. Silas Deane was a secret American envoy to this country, and Benjamin Franklin secured a military alliance with it. This country’s navy won the Battle of the Chesapeake, leading to the British surrender at Yorktown. For the point, name this home country of the Comte de Rochambeau and the Marquis de Lafayette, who helped the United States win the Revolutionary War.---A Republican politician from this state led the Half-Breeds and lost the 1884 presidential election; that man was James G. Blaine. The ability of local elections in this state to predict the result of national elections gave rise to the saying “As” this state “goes, so goes the nation.” This state and Nebraska are the only two states that can currently split their votes in the Electoral College. Susan Collins has won four Senate elections in, for the point, what New England state with capital Augusta?---The largest of these ships built during World War II was destroyed by the Archerﬁsh and was named Shinano. Those who allege that the US government had advance knowledge of the Pearl Harbor attack point out that these ships were not in the harbor at the time. The sinking of four Japanese ships of this type by the US Navy was a decisive factor in the Battle of Midway. For the point, name this type of warship that can act as a base for planes.---This woman’s husband Prasutagus attempted to leave his kingdom jointly to his daughters and the Roman Emperor, but the Romans rejected that will and whipped her instead. After Suetonius became engaged in ﬁghting in the far west, this woman launched a massive rebellion in which Camulodunum and Londinium were burned. The Battle of Watling Street ended the revolt led by, for the point, what ﬁrst century AD queen of the Iceni who opposed Roman rule in Britain? Boudica (or Boadicea)---
Adolf Eichmann---Hong Kong---Tammany Hall (accept Society of Saint Tammany or Sons of Saint Tammany)------Page 1 ---Toyotomi Hideyoshi (accept Hashiba Hideyoshi)---El Cid (accept Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar before it is read)---Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel---(Francis) Gary Powers---Augusto Pinochet---John Paul Page 2 ---Czechoslovakia (do not prompt on or accept Czech Republic, Czechia, and/or Slovakia)---Yuan Dynasty (accept Da Yuan)---Republic of Liberia---penicillin---Page 3 ---Great Salt Lake---Saigon (accept Ho Chi Minh City before “Ho” is read)---Virginia Plan (accept Randolph Plan before “Edmund” is read; prompt on answers relating to a plan favored by large states)---Fr´ed´eric (Franc¸ois) Chopin---Page 4 ---Frederick Douglass---Irish Potato Famine (accept the Great Famine; accept the Great Hunger; prompt on partial answers)---dragon (prompt on serpent or snake)---James Earl “Jimmy” Carter Jr.---The Page 5 ---Alexander the Great (or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander)---France---Maine---aircraft carriers Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Page 6---