B---False---50
The Ruthven Raid kidnapped this monarch who wrote Basilikon Doron and the True Law of Free Monarchies. He attempted to arrange a marriage between his son and the Infanta Maria in the Spanish Match and was called “the wisest fool in Christendom”. This king faced the Bye Plot and an assassination attempt carried out by Roger Catesby and Guy Fawkes known as the Gunpowder Plot. For the point, name this ﬁrst Stuart King of England who commissioned a namesake Bible.---The third movement scherzo of this piece includes a repeat which is often ignored, and a statement of its ﬁrst movement’s second subject is often played by the horns instead of the bassoons. This composition’s opening motif was used by BBC Radio during World War II as part of its “V for Victory” campaign, and was described by its composer as “fate knocking on the door”. For the point, name this symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven that opens with a “short-short-short-long” rhythm.---The Wilson-Gorman Revenue Act scaled back a tariﬀ passed by this man, who earned the nickname the “Napoleon of Protection.” He employed campaign manager Mark Hanna for two successful “front-porch” campaigns against William Jennings Bryan. Hawaii was annexed by this president, who passed the Gold Standard Act to end bimetallism. For the point, name this 25th U.S. President, who was succeeded by Theodore Roosevelt.---This man wrote: “I will not equivocate, I will not excuse, I will not retreat a single inch, AND I WILL BE HEARD” in the ﬁrst issue of a publication he founded with Isaac Knapp. He denounced the Constitution as a “Covenant with Death,” publicly burning a copy of it, due to its support for slavery. For the point, name this leader of the American Anti-Slavery Society and founder of the newspaper The Liberator.---Arcadio Huang served as a Chinese translator to this monarch, who gave slaves the right to marry with his Code Noir. His invasion of the Free County of Burgundy started the War of Devolution. The Fronde opposed this monarch internally, and his foreign expansionism was opposed by William of Orange’s League of Augsburg. For the point, name this French monarch who revoked the Edict of Nantes by issuing the Edict of Fontainebleau and was nicknamed “the Sun King.” Louis XIV of France---The Carl Sagan Memorial Station was established on this celestial body southwest of Acidalia Planitia. Its Schiaparelli Crater, named for the discoverer of supposed “canals” on this planet, was the planned site of the Ares 4 mission until an accident stranded Mark Watney on this planet in a 2011 Andy Weir novel. In 1997, the Pathﬁnder probe landed on, for the point, what “Red Planet?”---In a series of speeches to American troops, this man called a man ﬁxing a telegraph wire in Africa the bravest he’d met. He won a race to Messina against his British counterpart Bernard Montgomery. This leader of the ﬁctitious First U.S. Army Group saw his career stall after slapping a fatigued soldier. The Third Army was commanded after D-Day by, for the point, what American general known as “Old Blood and Guts?”---Frank Capra collaborated on a collection of seven ﬁlms in this genre which included Divide and Conquer. That collection of ﬁlms in this genre was inspired by, and a reaction to, a work in which Leni Riefenstahl depicted the Nuremberg Rallies, Triumph of the Will. The U.S. government commissioned Why We Fight, an example of, for the point, what type of ﬁlm meant to sway public opinion, usually created in wartime?---Art from this man’s rule features elongated necks and faces in a style named for a city where this man built a large temple complex. A bust attributed to Thutmose depicts this man’s primary wife, who changed her name with his when they moved to Amarna. This husband of Kiya and Nefertiti sought to establish the worship of Aten over that of Amun and all the other gods, a policy that failed soon after his death. For the point, name this pharaoh, the father of Tutankhamun.---Members of this party formed the Barnwell Ring. Its rival used the “Southern Strategy” to convert members of this party. One leader of this party reportedly claimed that it had “lost the South for a generation” after he signed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and this party’s Presidential nominee has only won South Carolina once since 1960. For the point, name this American political party opposed by the Republicans.---These people defeated Emperor Alexios I at the Battle of Dyrrhachium [dir-RAKE-ee-um] while led by Robert Guiscard [gee-scar], who had earlier been made Duke of Apulia and conquered the Emirate of Sicily. Their leader Rollo signed the treaty of St. Claire-sur-Epte after capturing Rouen, which granted them their namesake territory. The most famous leader of these people landed at Pevensey to dispute the inheritance of Edward the Confessor. For the point, name these people who won the Battle of Hastings under William the Conqueror. Normans---The USS Washington captured this ship, whose passengers had traveled aboard the Tecora to Cuba. Don Pedro Montez navigated this ship to Long Island, disobeying the orders of Sengbe Pieh. The Mende people aboard this ship were defended by John Quincy Adams, who convinced the Supreme Court to re-grant them their freedom. For the point, name this ship, on which a group of slaves revolted in 1839.---The Amur River Bridge extended this project. Finance Minister Sergei Witte oversaw its construction, which included a section that circled around Lake Baikal and was inspired after Nicholas II traveled to Vladivostok. World War II supplies were sent from the Eastern European theater to the Paciﬁc theater by, for the point, what transcontinental railroad that traverses the large, sparsely populated majority of Russia?---In 2008, one holder of this position controversially suggested Sharia law was compatible with his country’s laws. In addition to Rowan Williams, another holder of this position protested the passage of the Constitution of Clarendon, while another, Thomas Cranmer, created the Book of Common Prayer. This position, currently held by Justin Welby, was held by Thomas Becket when he was murdered in his cathedral. For the point, name this position that heads the Church of England under the British monarch.---The narrator of one poem set during this war delivers a cry to “take up our quarrel with the foe;” that poem’s title location is marked with “crosses/row on row.” An attack during this war was described in “Dulce et Decorum Est” by Wilfred Owen, who died during this war. “Insensibility” describes soldiers in this war suﬀering from shell shock. John McCrae’s “In Flanders Fields” was set during, for the point, what “Great War” fought from 1914 to 1919?---In 2008, this country launched the Vision 2030 development program under Mwaki Kibaki. In the Goldenberg scandal, this country subsidized possibly non-existent gold exports, as authorized by President Daniel arap Moi. In 2013, its capital city’s Westgate Shopping Mall was attacked by al-Shabaab, based in neighboring Somalia. For the point, name this African country, where Uhuru Kenyatta leads from Nairobi.---This company was founded by Alexander Majors to compete with the Butterﬁeld route. Its employees were equipped with locked mochilas and specially-printed Bibles. Wells Fargo bought the assets of this company, which constructed relay stations every ten miles along its route, when it closed two days after the opening of the ﬁrst transcontinental telegraph in 1861. For the point, what company delivered mail to California on its namesake steeds? Pony Express (or Central Overland California and Pike’s Peak Express Company)---The Soviet Union protested this country’s control of certain waterways granted by the Montreux Convention. The Blue Stream carries natural gas from Russia into this country. Oleg Peshkov was killed after one of this country’s F-16 jets shot down his Su-24 in November 2015; shortly after, Russia claimed this country’s president proﬁted from buying oil from ISIS forces in nearby Syria. For the point, name this country where President Recep Erdogan [reh-sip AIR-doh-wan] leads from Ankara.---This colony repelled a Spanish invasion as part of the War of Jenkins’ Ear in the Battle of Bloody Marsh. Its charter prohibited slavery unitl 1749, and the Altamaha River was its original southern boundary. This colony was originally envisioned as a haven for debtors and “the worthy poor,” by its founder, who established its ﬁrst capital at Savannah. For the point, James Oglethorpe founded what province in 1732, the southernmost of the original Thirteen Colonies?---While serving as an intelligence oﬃcer in this country, Jean-Marie le Pen was accused of torture. This country’s FLN, led by Ahmed Ben Bella, fought a guerilla war against its colonial rulers; after that war, Harkis and Pieds-Noirs [pee-ay nwar] ﬂed this country as the Evian Accords granted it its independence in 1962. For the point, name this north African country, a former French colony with capital Algiers.---The “H” on the jersey from one of this city’s sports teams is erroneously thought to represent early settlers of this city, the “Habitants.” Like San Diego, this city was awarded a National League MLB team in 1969; that team’s name referenced the 1967 World’s Fair held in this city. Until they moved to Washington, D.C., the Expos played in the Stade Olympique [STAHD oh-lim-PEEK] in, for the point, what French-speaking Canadian city? Montreal---One leader of this country was deposed in 1977 and executed two years later for authorizing the murder of Ahmed Raza Kasuri. This country’s former president, Muhammed Zia-ul-Haq, died after his plane crashed after lifting oﬀ from Bahawalpur. Its Chagai district was the site of two nuclear tests in May 1998, a response by its Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, to nuclear tests performed by its neighbor, India. For the point, name this Islamic Asian country with capital Islamabad.---During this man’s Presidency, Caleb Cushing signed the Treaty of Wanghia with the Qing Dynasty. John Botts tried to impeach this man, who was elected to the Confederate House of Representatives after his presidency. This Whig ran as Vice President in 1840 with the winner of the Battle of Tippecanoe. For the point, name this man who was dubbed “his Accidency” when he became President after William Henry Harrison’s death. Tyler---This man helped raise money for a Central Park sculpture of Shakespeare by joining his brothers, Junius and Edwin, for a production of Julius Caesar. He plotted to kidnap a man at the Old Soldiers’ Home with the help of David Herold and George Atzerodt. One accomplice of this man, Lewis Powell, stabbed William Seward the same night that this man shouted “sic semper tyrannis!” while leaping from the box at Ford’s Theater. For the point, name this assassin of Abraham Lincoln.---During this event, the scientist who names the operator for the divergence of the gradient was appointed Minister of the Interior for six weeks. During this time period, the namesake of the SI unit of electric charge helped develop the metric system with the scientist who discovered the law of conservation of mass. For the point, name this event, during which Antoine Lavoisier was killed by guillotine during the Reign of Terror.---This work’s ﬁrst chapter, “Laying Plans,” names “method and discipline” as one of ﬁve factors governing its subject. This work is believed to have been written during the Spring and Autumn period or the Warring States period, and ends with a chapter on the use of spies. For the point, name this sixth century BC treatise by Sun Tzu which notes “All warfare is based on deception.”---Matthew Restall disputes claims that this empire’s fall was due to its superstition regarding their conquerors arriving at the end of a 52-year cycle. The Tepanec War led to a Triple Alliance of this empire’s cities, including Tlacopan. La Malinche [mah-LEEN-chay] helped one man conquer this empire, whose leader died during La Noche Triste [NO-chay TREEST]. Montezuma II was the ﬁnal ruler of this empire from its capital at Tenochtitlan [ten-oach-TEET-lan], on modern Mexico City. For the point, name this Mesoamerican empire that was conquered by Hernan Cortes.---A group of hardliners sought to overthrow this leader in the August Coup. He attempted to reform his nation’s economy by instituting perestroika and advocated for “openness” with glasnost. He renounced the Brezhnev Doctrine, which led to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the “Fall of Communism” in 1989 across Eastern Europe. For the point, name this last General Secretary of the USSR.---The Griﬃn case reinforced this legal decision, which was to be implemented “with all deliberate speed.” Evidence submitted for this case included Kenneth and Mamie Clark’s doll experiments. As part of the “massive resistance” campaign against the decision in this case, many Southern states became home to “segregation academies”. For the point, name this 1954 Supreme Court case overturning Plessy v. Ferguson, mandating the integration of public schools. Brown v. Board of Education (of Topeka, Kansas)---This man’s friend Gaspar Gorricio inspired him to write the Book of Privileges, and on this man’s ﬁnal voyage, he was attacked by El Quiban. On that same voyage, this man discovered the Cayman Islands and called them “Las Tortugas.” This man was replaced as Governor of the Indies by Francisco Bobadilla, and his voyages were funded by Ferdinand and Isabella. For the point, name this Genoan explorer who commanded the Nina, Pinta, and the Santa Maria.---The diﬀerence in the sun’s height at noon between two cities in this modern-day country led Eratosthenes to calculate the circumference of the Earth; other Greek mathematicians who lived in this region included Hypatia, Heron, and Euclid. For the point, name this country where many scientiﬁc texts were kept but lost in the burning of the library of Alexandria.---
James I of England or James VI of Scotland---Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony no. 5 in C minor, Op. 67 (”Beethoven” and “Symphony” not needed after mentioned)---William McKinley---William Lloyd Garrison---Page 1 ---Mars---George S. Patton Jr.---propaganda ﬁlms (prompt on war ﬁlms)---Akhenaten [or Ikhnaton and sound equivalents; accept Amenhotep IV]---Democratic Party---Page 2 ---La Amistad---Trans-Siberian Railway (or Railroad)---Archbishop of Canterbury (accept Primate of All England; prompt on “archbishop” or descriptions like “leader of the Anglican church;” do not accept “Primate of England”)---World War I (accept the Great War until mentioned)---Kenya---Page 3 ---Turkey---Province of Georgia---People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria------Islamic Republic of Pakistan---John Page 4 ---John Wilkes Booth---French Revolution or R´evolution fran¸caise---The Art of War (or Sunzi Bingfa)---Aztec Empire---Mikhail Gorbachev---Page 5 ---Christopher Columbus Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Egypt Page 6---