B---False---53
The American philosopher, Herrlee G. Creel, argued that this system of thought's founder was a revolutionary, in a book subtitled The Man and the Myth. During the New Culture Movement, this system of thought was pejoratively referred to as "Kong's Family Business." The historical record, Spring and Autumn Annals became one of this system of thought’s Five Classics. Suppressed during the Qin Dynasty, for the point, name this system of thought derived from the teachings of an ancient Chinese philosopher.---This country was the basis of a one-movement symphonic composition by Aaron Copland. Graham Greene’s The Power and the Glory takes place entirely within this country. A painter from this country was commissioned to paint the mural Man at the Crossroads for Rockefeller Center, while his wife painted many self-portraits in various guises, suffused with cultural symbols from her homeland. For the point, what country was the birthplace of Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo?---A former professional player of this sport formed the Congress for Democratic Change in Liberia, defeating Joseph Bokai in the 2017 Presidential elections. In a location for playing this sport, soldiers of Francisco Macías Nguema [[NGAY-mah]] executed 150 political prisoners while dressed as Santa Claus. Violence at a qualifier for an international tournament in this sport led to a five-day long war between Honduras and El Salvador. For the point, name this sport which Liberian president George Weah played for Manchester City.---First recorded as a tutelary deity of Nekhen, this god lost an eye while battling his uncle and rival. Ancient Egyptian sailors often painted this god’s wadjet on the bows of their ships for protection. Myth recalls this god’s right eye as the sun and his left as the moon, and it’s said they cross the sky as he flies across it. For the point, name this ancien t Egyptian sky god, the rival of Set, commonly depicted as a man with the head of a falcon.---Yermak Timofeyevich defeated this region's Turan khanate at the Battle of Chuvash Cape. The promysloviki worked in this region's fur trade where the yasak fur tribute was demanded, and, in 1586, the first Russian settlement in this region was founded at Tyumen. Empress Elizabeth expelled the Chukchi people from this region, and many Yakuts were violently attacked. A railway crossing this region stretched from Moscow to Vladivostok. For the point, name this barren, frozen region of Russia.---This leader's reign was proclaimed as cursed by the Ptolemaic priest, Manetho, who claimed the gods were angered by this man's writing of a namesake “Sacred Book.” The Westcar Papyrus tells tales of intrigue caused by magicians in the court of this ancient leader. Arab historians theorized that this man built one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World due to having nightmares about the world turning upside down. For the point, name this Old Kingdom pharaoh who funded the Great Pyramid of Giza.---Within this building, Botticelli contributed works to two series, titled The Life of Moses and The Life of Christ. Pope Julius II told a Florentine artist to stop working on his tomb and turn his attention to a large commission at this site. Later, Daniele da Volterra was commissioned to paint fig leaves and loincloths over figures on a fresco behind the altar at this site. For the point, name this Vatican City structure, home to Michelangelo’s ceiling fresco and his The Last Judgement.---Ratification of this treaty was delayed because one country wanted to withhold diplomatic recognition from South American revolutionaries. Because it could not adequately defend its North American territories, a key consequence of this agreement was the United States’s acquisition of substantial coastline on the Gulf of Mexico. For the point, name this treaty signed in 1819 by a diplomatic envoy from Spain and a future US president through which the United States acquired Florida.---In horticulture, the term used for this medical practice refers to the grafting of a bud or eye from one plant to another. This medical practice was first adopted in 16th century China and 18th century Circassia to combat outbreaks of Variola Major. In 1722, King George II requested his daughters be subjected to this medical practice after physicians proved its efficacy at Newgate Prison. For the point, name this practice used to artificially introduce immunity against infectious disease.---This ruler was held prisoner by his brother for a week in a tambo administrative building after being defeated at Tomebamba. The Mapuche people told a myth of this native ruler resurrecting and killing the governor, Pedro of Valdivia. This son of Huayna Capac fought a five-year civil war with his sibling, Huascar. This Sapa lost the Battle of Cajamarca, which resulted in the Spanish razing his capital of Cuzco. For the point, name this Incan Emperor, defeated by Francisco Pizarro.---First and last names required. One man with this name orchestrated the Nootka Sound controversy to force the Kingdom of Spain to abandon its claims in North America. Another man with this name, known as the “Great Commoner,” planned the invasion of Quebec led by James Wolfe during the French and Indian War. A man with this name negotiated the Treaty of Paris with the Thirteen Colonies and incorporated the island of Ireland in the Act of Union of 1800. For the point, give this name shared by a father and son who both served as British Prime Minister.---Usurper Wu Zetian claimed ancestry from this dynasty’s King Ping, temporarily moving away from the Tang name. A duke’s suppression of the Rebellion of the Three Guards during this dynasty led to the rise of the decentralized Fengjian system. The civil service of Confucius occurred at the tail end of this dynasty during the Spring and Autumn period. For the point, name this early Chinese dynasty after the Shang that gave way to the chaos of the Warring States period.---The closest of these geographical features to the equator is Arunaka, in Kiribati [[KEE-REE-BAHS]]. In the late 19th century, the Royal Society of London carried out a coral drilling study on one of these geographical features in Tuvalu. In 1946, the citizens of one of these geographical features were evacuated to another of these features, named Rongerik, prior to Operation Crossroads, a nuclear test by the United States. For the point, name these geographical features, described by Charles Darwin as “lagoon-islands,” perhaps the best known of which is Bikini.---This state’s first Constitution had an article which renamed the city of Angostura to the name of a revolutionary who led the "Admirable Campaign." The Cosiata nearly led to the secession of the army of General José Antonio Páez from this state, leading to negotiations in Maracaibo. This nation, formed out of the Viceroyalty of New Granada, established capitals at Quito, Caracas and Bogotá during the Congress. For the point, name this state made up of modern Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama and the title nation, a short-lived republic led by Simón Bolivar.---In the 4th and 5th centuries, members of this ethnic group traveled from the Ural Mountains to Bashkiria, then to the Caspian Steppe. In 895, Arpad and six other chieftains of this ethnic group settled in the Carpathian Basin. The 2018 US Census estimated approximately 1.4 million Americans who identify as part of this ethnic group, with the greatest populations in Ohio and New York. For the point, name this ethnic group, whose namesake country sits between Austria and Romania.---The first confirmed king to build a tomb in the Valley of the Kings had this name and was the son of Amenhotep I. That king of this name described the Euphrates as "inverted water" and made Turi viceroy of Kush. Hatshepsut succeeded another king of this name, also called Chebron, and Satiah was the wife of another pharaoh of this name who took Joppa and had a general named Jehuty. Cleopatra's Needles were created during the reign of a ruler who won the Battle of Megiddo and bore, for the point, what name?---After this event, John Kenlon found 200 potential buildings with unacceptable conditions. Michael Hirsch investigated victims of this event buried at the Evergreens Cemetery. Gaspar Mortillaro and Joseph Zito saved many lives during this event using elevators. A coached testimony at the trial after this event was given by Kate Alterman, though Max Steuer destroyed her credibility. This event took place at the Asch Building, now part of NYU. Many Italian and Jewish women died during, for the point, this 1911 industrial disaster in New York City.---The Second Peace of Thorn led to this city’s exit from the Hanseatic League and annexation by the kingdom of Casimir IV. Nazi Germany’s demand for the return of this city led to a September 1st, 1939 invasion that began World War Two between the Allies and Axis. The Solidarity Trade Union first met in this city’s “Shipyards,” leading to the eventual rise of the Lech Walesa-led government in the following decade. For the point, name this city in the Polish Corridor, known to Germans as Danzig.---A king with this name capitalized on Rusa I’s failed campaign against the Cimmerians and plundered the Urartu holy city of Uzana. ISIS demolished the remains of the great fortress of Dur-Sharrukin which that king by this name planned as his capital. A cupbearer turned king with this name conquered much of Sumer, further consolidated by his grandson Naram-Sin. For the point, give this name of an Assyrian and an Akkadian king, the latter having created the first empire in Mesopotamia.---Description acceptable. Year required in answer. The impetus for this event occurred when the Moldovan-flagged cargo ship MV Rhosus, carrying 3,030 short tons of ammonium nitrate, was placed in permanent storage. This event resulted in the removal of large quantities of ammonium nitrate from similar storage facilities in Egypt and India. President Michel Aoun accepted the resignation of the government under Hassan Diab five days after this event. For the point, name this event caused by the improper storage of ammonium nitrate in a Mediterranean port.---George Washington Bush attempted to travel to the region of this modern-day state but was prohibited by the 1844 Black Exclusion Law. Sam Barlow built a road in this state that began at The Dalles, and the city of Champoeg [[sham-POO-ee]] was one of the earliest European settlements in this state's Willamette Valley. A territory that shares its name with this modern-day state fought to protect its northern border with the slogan "Fifty-Four Forty or Fight!" For the point, name this state, the end point of a trail that brought travelers from Missouri to Portland.---The tabella certa was used during these events while a person crossed the pons and deposited an item at the cista. A crime during these events was outlawed by the Lex Baebia. Secrecy during these events was made possible via the leges tabellariae including lex gabinia. During these events, a slave known as the nomenclator memorized names for speakers. The Toga candida was given to candidates during these events. For the point, name these Roman events in which citizens could vote.---These conflicts began when trader Jack Marmon traded certain objects made in Birmingham for flax and timber. Ngāti Mutunga warriors hijacked ships and rerouted them to enslave the pacifist Chatham Islanders during these conflicts. During these conflicts, the introduction of European trade allowed tribal chief Hongi Hika to launch raids across the Bay of Plenty. For the point, name this devastating set of wars between Maori tribes, named for a European armament.---In 1927, someone disguised as this person was the target of Texas's largest manhunt after he robbed a bank. Washington Irving anglicized this man's name as part of a movement to slow down home invasions called "wassailing." This man is shown "with Much Delight" in a poem for which Clement Clarke Moore claimed authorship. Thomas Nast caricatured this man dressed in an American flag with a puppet named "Jeff" while L. Frank Baum and Coca Cola both popularized his image. For the point, name this man who brings Christmas gifts on flying reindeer.---The introduction of this good by the Portuguese in Delagoa Bay and use of it by the Zulu has been linked to the Mfecane. This crop, which was first grown in the Balsas River Valley, names a set of tariffs repealed by British Prime Minister Robert Peel during the Irish Potato Famine. Anthropologists use the amount of tooth decay from eating or lack of eating this food to determine whether a pre-Columbian Mesoamerican lived in an urban settlement or a hunter-gatherer society. For the point, name this Central American grain now used to produce ethanol.---When this Eisenach native demanded that his Weimar employers release him from his post, they threw him in jail instead. Manuscripts of this prolific composer's works reveal the handwriting of many copyists, including several of his twenty-one children. As a kapellmeister, this man turned out hundreds of sacred choral works, and this man was father to the musicians Wilhelm Friedemann and Johann Christian. For the point, who wrote the St Matthew Passion and the Brandenburg Concertos?---Men with this noble title, led by Roger FitzWalter, attempted to seize the English crown and give it to King Henry II’s French grandson-in-law. Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria and a woman with the feminine form of this title were found dead by suicide during the Mayerling Incident. A man with this noble title who flew in the “Flying Circus” achieved the most wins in aerial combat during the First World War. For the point, name this European noble title held by men such as Manfred von Richtofen, the lowest title in British peerage.---A person of this ethnic group named "Nanny" led the first of the Maroon Wars, which secured land for escaped slaves in Jamaica. Governor Charles McCarthy fell during the Battle of Nsamankow against these people, and his skull was used as a ceremonial cup by their king, Osei Bonsu. An empire named for these people lasted from 1701 to 1957 and was unified by a symbolic Golden Stool. For the point, name this West African people group known for their use of Kente clothing, native to a region in modern-day Ghana.---This state likely passed the Black Plague to the rest of Europe after catapulting dead bodies during the Siege of Kaffa. Although Muslim, this state assisted Yaroslav the Great in his defense of Novgorod from Livonian Knights and Danish Catholics. Muscovy served as a vassal of this Turkic state, with Ivan III declaring independence from it during the Great Stand on the Ugra. For the point, name this division of the Mongol Empire founded by Batu Khan, with a name inspired by the color of their tents, which controlled much of modern Russia.---Samuel Beckett argued that the recursive structure of this 1939 novel was modeled on Giambattista Vico’s La Scienza Nuova. By 1924, fragments from this novel began to be published in Parisian literary journals, and initial reactions to the novel’s dream-like, stream of consciousness style were overwhelmingly negative. This novel begins when the eponymous character, a Dublin hod carrier, falls to his death while constructing a wall. Ftp, name this experimental final novel by James Joyce.---Writer Allen Ginsburg was expelled from this nation in the mid-1960s after recounting a dirty dream he had about one of its early leaders on public radio. The collapse of the USSR led to a period of economic instability in this nation known as “The Special Period.” This nation traded its doctors in exchange for Venezuelan oil, and it was caught in between the US and the Soviets in a namesake “Missile Crisis.” For the point, name this Communist island formerly ruled by Fidel Castro.---
Confucianism (or Ruism)---Mexico (or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; prompt on "EUM")---Soccer (accept Association Football)---Horus (or Heru; or Har) ---Siberia---Khnum Khufu (accept Cheops)---Sistine Chapel (accept Cappella Sistina; prompt on "Apostolic Palace" or "Palace of Sixtus V"; prompt on partial answer)---Adams-Onís Treaty (accept Transcontinental Treaty or Florida Purchase Treaty) ---Inoculation (accept word forms; do not accept or prompt on "vaccination" or "immunization")---Atahualpa (or Atabalica, or Atabalipa)---William Pitt (Prompt on partial answers)---Zhou Dynasty ---Atoll---Gran Colombia (prompt on Republic of "Colombia"; do not accept "Grand Colombia" or "Grande Colombia")---Hungarians (or Magyars)---Thutmoses (accept Thutmoses I; accept Thutmoses II; accept Thutmoses III) ---Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire---Gdansk (accept Danzig before mentioned)---Sargon (accept Sargon of Akkad; accept Sargon the Great; accept Sargon II)---2020 Beirut explosion (description acceptable as long as it includes 2020 Beirut and acceptable synonyms for explosion) ---Oregon---Roman Elections (accept "Vote" or similar answers prior to mention)---Musket Wars---Santa Claus (accept Saint Nicholas) ---Maize (accept Corn)---Johann Sebastian Bach (prompt on partial answers)---Baron (accept First Baron's War; accept Baroness Mary Vetsera; accept Red Baron; accept Baron Manfred von Richtofen)---Ashanti (accept Asanteman) ---Golden Horde (or Ulug Ulus; or Kipchak Khanate; or Ulus of Jochi)---Finnegans Wake ---Republic of Cuba---