B---False---55
This battle was followed by a series of harsh winter rains that led the losing side to experience the infamous “Mud March.” The winning side in this battle was able to set up defenses along Marye’s Heights after the losing side experienced delays in setting pontoon bridges across the Rappahannock. Joseph Hooker was appointed commander of the Army of the Potomac shortly after this battle. For the point, name this December 1862 victory for Robert E. Lee over Ambrose Burnside in Virginia.---This man co-wrote a book in favor of gender equality with his wife Harriet Taylor called The Subjection of Women and was the ﬁrst member of Parliament to call for women’s suﬀrage. This philosopher argued for total liberty with the exception of infringing on others in his “harm principle,” and he advocated the “greatest good for the greatest number.” For the point, name this philosopher who, along with Jeremy Bentham, founded utilitarianism.---During this period, a recent convert to Catholicism was publicly executed and ﬁred out of a cannon in the general direction of Poland. During this period, the de la Gardie unit upheld the rule of Prince Shuisky before it was completely destroyed at the Battle of Klushino, which led to Gustavus Adolphus waging the Ingrian War. Men pretending to be the dead prince Dimitri arose during, for the point, what Russian period of upheaval that ended in 1613 with Michael Romanov taking the throne?---This battle’s losers were dubbed the “Convention Army” after a treaty allowing them to return home was broken. The Treaty of Alliance was conﬁrmed as a result of this battle. The sniper Timothy Murphy legendarily shot a general during ﬁghting for Bemis Heights during this battle. Benedict Arnold was incensed that Horatio Gates received credit for the surrender of John Burgoyne in, for the point, what decisive 1777 victory for the colonists in New York?---An account of this event claims that a horriﬁed cry of “Get a doctor!” was followed by a joking yell of “Get a dentist! Get two dentists!” A key participant in this event was forced to stand on a chair and yell multi-syllabic Russian numbers. This event, which took place at Gabriel Astruc’s new Theatre des Champs-Elysees on May 29, 1913, is said to have resulted in ﬁstﬁghts and mass walkouts over the dissonance and lewd choreography. For the point, name this Parisian riot over the premiere of a ballet by Igor Stravinsky. Rite of Spring (or Le Sacre du printemps; all that is---This leader created the Economic Policy Board in an attempt to revive the economy, but was instead mocked for giving out buttons that read “Whip Inﬂation Now” to supporters. This President, who pledged not to intervene with the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, lost support for declaring that “our long national nightmare is over” as he pardoned his predecessor. For the point, name this president who was soundly defeated by Jimmy Carter in 1976 after replacing Richard Nixon.---A general died in a plane crash during this war after exceeding his plane’s weight limit by packing too many dress uniforms. The “Valley of the Fallen” memorial was created to honor the dead of this war, whose winner may have killed generals Jose Sanjurjo and Emilio Mola after serving in the Rif War. For the point, name this war in which Nationalists led by Francisco Franco took cities such as Seville and Barcelona.---During this period, educated members of the youth were sent to farm in rural villages in the “Countryside movement.” This period began with an order to “bombard the headquarters” and the political downfall of Liu Shaoqi. This movement tried to destroy the “Four Olds” of Western thought, and it was carried out by student revolutionaries in the Red Guard. For the point, name this 1960’s “revolution” that sought to strengthen Communist ideology in China.---Members of this religion founded colonies in Mexico around the Sierra Madre mountains starting in 1885. Warren Jeﬀs, the leader of a “Fundamentalist” oﬀshoot of this religion, was on the FBI Most Wanted list until his arrest in 2011. This religion, which teaches that spouses live together in the afterlife after Celestial Marriage, notes that Adam lived at a location near Jameson, Missouri after expulsion from the Garden. For the point, name this religion whose scriptures were legendarily translated from golden plates by Joseph Smith.---This ruler fought the battles of Chanderi and Khanwa to consolidate his rule against Rana Sanga. This ruler’s early career was marked by constant wars with Mohammed Shaybani over Kabul and Ferghana. The governor of Lahore, Daulat Khan, invited this man to launch an invasion force against Ibrahim Lodi. This man was subsequently victorious at the Battle of Panipat. For the point, name the founder of the Mughal Empire. Babur---The plaintiﬀ in this Supreme Court case had asked for a writ of mandamus after the defendant refused to deliver a federal commission to him. This case led the Chief Justice to declare that a “law repugnant to the Constitution is void.” This case thwarted one of John Adams’ attempts to appoint “midnight judges,” as John Marshall held that the Judiciary Act of 1789 was unconstitutional. For the point, name this 1803 case that established the principle of judicial review. Marbury v. Madison---This man motivated his soldiers by telling them, “I do not order you to ﬁght, I order you to die” during a defense of his homeland. Anger over the Treaty of Sevres prompted this man to lead a war of independence, leading his country to be recognized in the Treaty of Lausanne. He later implemented “reformism” as part of the Six Arrows ideology, which banned the fez in an attempt at westernization. For the point, name this founder of modern Turkey.---On this island, Edmund Halley tracked the movement of 341 stars and Nevil Maskelyne and Robert Waddington tried to observe the transit of Venus. Sayyid bin Barghash, the Sultan of Zanzibar, was exiled to this island, as was the son of Cetshwayo. On this island, Sir Hudson Lowe served as a jailer for another famous prisoner, who had previously escaped from Elba to lead the Hundred Days restoration in France. For the point, name this island that served as the ﬁnal prison for Napoleon.---William Alden Smith led an inquest into the causes of this event, in which reporters incorrectly noted that its victims had been saved by the Virginian. Benjamin Guggenheim, John Jacob Astor, and captain Edward Smith were killed during this event, which occurred during a journey between Southampton and New York City. The White Star Line’s claims were proven false in, for the point, what 1912 disaster that killed more than 1,500 people in the cold North Atlantic ocean?---This man’s forces were victorious at Ad Decimum against Gelimer, allowing for the reconquest of North Africa from Vandal hands. This man was asked to dismiss Tribonian during a revolt of the Blue and Green factions, but instead sent Belisarius and Narses to crush the Nika riots. This man’s achievements include the construction of the Hagia Sophia and the codiﬁcation of Roman law. For the point, name this great Byzantine emperor who was married to Theodora.---Clarence Borel died before his lawsuit against manufacturers of this product reached its conclusion in his favor in 1973. The chrysotile form of this substance was once used as costuming and props in ﬁlms, such as the snow in The Wizard of Oz. In 2018, Johnson & Johnson was ordered to pay over $4 billion in damages related to this material’s use in its talcum powder. Mesothelioma is a cancer most commonly caused by exposure to, for the point, what mineral that was once very commonly used in ﬁreproof insulation? asbestos (accept descriptions of asbestos-based insulation; prompt on insulation before---Prior to this battle, Anne Savary was sent to Olmutz to ask for a ceaseﬁre. The winning general declared, “never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake” during this battle, where a heavy fog helped obscure Nicholas Soult’s attack up the Pratzen Heights. This battle led to the Treaty of Pressburg and the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine. For the point, name this 1805 battle in which France decisively defeated the Russian and Austrian armies. Austerlitz (or the Battle of the Three Emperors)---This ruler may have ordered the death of Augusto Vandor, one of the leaders within the CGT union that this man opposed. This man was supported by the Triple A death group and targeted the left wing Montoneros during a massacre at Ezeiza airport. The descamisados, or shirtless ones, backed this man, who was succeeded by his third wife, Isabel. For the point, name this three time President of Argentina who beneﬁted from his marriage to the popular Evita.---This event’s survivors were rounded up in the Drexel Mission Fight a day later. James Forsyth’s men perpetrated this event, which was stoked by fears that Wovoka’s “ghost dance” movement meant imminent attack. This event began when the deaf man Black Coyote refused to hand over his riﬂe, leading army troops to ﬁre upon the Pine Ridge reservation. For the point, name this 1890 event in which members of the Lakota were massacred in South Dakota.---This man used a collapsing raft in an attempt to kill his mother, Agrippina the Younger, and he exiled his tutor Seneca. This man was accused of intentional sabotage to clear space for his Domus Aurea project and instead shifted the blame onto the Christians, whom he began persecuting. This man’s assassination in 68 AD prompted the Year of the Four Emperors. For the point, name this emperor who was said to have ﬁddled while Rome burned.---Senator Jesse Thomas proposed that the southern border of this state be extended across the rest of the Louisiana Purchase as a line for slavery’s expansion. After Congressman James Tallmadge added an amendment to this state’s request to join the Union, it ﬂoundered in the Senate. This state ultimately joined the Union along with a free state that had been part of Massachusetts, Maine. For the point, name this state that became a slave state as part of a namesake compromise in 1820.---News of this event broke after Shaul Ladany jumped oﬀ a roof to escape. This event led to the death of Ahmed Bouchiki during a case of mistaken identity in Lillehammer. Operation Wrath of God sought to track down the perpetrators of this event. Led by Lutiﬀ Atif, the planners of this event demanded that leaders of the Red Army Faction be released. Members of Black September committed, for the point, what 1972 crisis in which 11 Israeli athletes were murdered? Munich Massacre (accept descriptive answers relating to the Israeli hostage crisis at the 1972---This event was supported by the Six Society of intellectuals, who wished to promote “civilization and enlightenment.” Supporters of this event used the slogan “enrich the country, strengthen the military,” and its detractors launched the Satsuma Revolt to slow its reforms. The Charter Oath provided legal backing for this event, which sought to promote Western ideals and end feudalism. For the point, name this 1868 event that restored power to the Japanese emperor. Meiji Restoration---This monarch may have prompted Robert Dudley to push Amy Robsart down a ﬂight of stairs. The Babington and Ridolﬁ plots sought to assassinate this ruler but were thwarted by the advisor Francis Walsingham. This ruler rallied the troops at Tilbury, where she declared she had the “heart and stomach of a king” in opposition to an invasion of the Spanish Armada. For the point, name this daughter of Henry VIII, a “Virgin Queen” of England.---This period featured the widespread usage of the phrase “the people want to bring down the regime” in graﬃti and chants. The “Revolution of Dignity” took place against Ali Saleh during this period. After his vegetable cart had been seized by government oﬃcials, Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on ﬁre; that incident sparked this period, which led to the downfall of the Gaddaﬁ and Mubarak governments. For the point, name this 2010 period in which uprisings commenced across the Middle East.---This battle turned when the Ne’arin detachment suddenly arrived from Amurru. Prior to this battle, one side was tricked into thinking that the enemy was at Aleppo by two Shashu spies. After he was forced back towards the Orontes River, Muwatalli II was defeated in this battle and subsequently signed the world’s ﬁrst peace treaty. For the point, name this largest chariot battle in history, a 1274 BC battle where Ramesses II fought the Hittites.---This painting’s artist insisted that it never be returned to its home country until a republic was re-established; in 1992, it was transferred to a museum known as “the Soﬁa.” A ﬂower grows on a sword being held by a detached hand in this painting. In this painting, a bull’s head and a horse being impaled serve as symbols of Spain, which was at the time embroiled in civil war. For the point, name this Pablo Picasso painting inspired by the bombing of a Basque town.---Membership in this group swelled after the Knights of Mary Phagan formed to murder Leo Frank. Four years after it was formed at the Maxwell House Hotel, the Force Act was passed to curb this group’s activities. Founded by Nathan Bedford Forrest, this group experienced a revival after it was gloriﬁed in D.W. Griﬃth’s ﬁlm The Birth of a Nation. For the point, name this American white supremacist group.---The life of a miller in this modern-day country is depicted in Carlo Ginzburg’s The Cheese and the Worms. Holy Roman Emperor Charles V’s attempt to invade this country was defeated by the Lombard League, and Francis I was captured at the Battle of Pavia in this country. A city in this country was ruled by the Guelphs when it faced the Ciompi revolt of wool workers; that city was later ruled by Cosimo and Lorenzo the Magniﬁcent. For the point, name this country where the Medici family dominated the politics of Florence. Italy---John Richards was asked to resolve this event without relying on “spectral evidence” by Cotton Mather. During this event, Giles Corey was suﬀocated by stones and a cake made of urine was fed to a dog. A slave named Tituba confessed during this event, which began when two children suﬀered ﬁts. For the point, name this 1692 event in which 19 people were hung after supposedly associating with Satan in Massaschusetts.---Description acceptable. Although it’s not Italian, this legislation was passed with the support of the Squadrone Volante [squad-roh-nay voh-lan-tay]. One country entered into this legislation in part due to crippling ﬁnancial losses in the Darien Scheme. These acts forced one country to acknowledge succession laws established in the earlier Act of Settlement. For the point, name this set of acts, passed in 1706 and 1707, that merged Scotland and England into Great Britain.---
Battle of Fredericksburg---John Stuart Mill---Time of Troubles (or Smutnoe vremya)---Battle of Saratoga---the riot at the premiere of The needed is the title; prompt on partial descriptions without the title) Page 1 ---Gerald Ford (or Leslie King)---Spanish Civil War (accept Guerra Civil Espanola)---Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (”revolution” not needed after mentioned)---The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (or LDS Church; accept the Mormons; accept Mormonism)------Page 2 ---Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (accept either or both names)---St. Helena---sinking of the RMS Titanic---Justinian I (accept Justinian the Great)---mentioned)---Battle of Page 3 ---Juan Peron---Wounded Knee massacre---Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus (do not prompt on partial answers that don’t mention Nero)---Missouri---Munich Summer Olympics; prompt on partial answers that don’t name the city)---Page 4 ---Elizabeth I (prompt on Elizabeth)---Arab Spring (prompt on descriptions of revolutions in Tunisia, Yemen, Libya, and/or Egypt)---Battle of Kadesh---Guernica---Ku Klux Klan (prompt on “the Klan”)---Page 5 ---Salem Witch Trials Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---1706/7 Act(s) of Union (until “merged” is read, accept descriptions of the creation of Great Britain, or the union (or merger, etc.) of Scotland and England, or similar; after “merged” is read, you can still accept descriptions, but they must say the word union) Page 6---