B---False---58
This man, the last foreign head of state to serve in U.S. Congress, was shot in the ankle while leading troops with the battle cry “Remember Goliad!” This winning general at the 18-minute-long Battle of San Jacinto refused loyalty to the Confederacy after the secession of his home state. For the point, name this two-time President of the Republic of Texas, the namesake of the most populous city in Texas.---This political party was supported by John Fenno’s Gazette of the United States. DeWitt Clinton and Rufus King were this party’s last presidential candidates. Most delegates to the Hartford Convention were members of this party, whose platform was shaped by Alexander Hamilton. George Washington never oﬃcially joined, for the point, what early American political party whose only President was John Adams?---The second of these people was tortured to death by He Jian. An arrangement made Luo Yixiu [lu-OH ee-SHU] the ﬁrst of these people, and Jiang Qing [JEE-ang ching] was the fourth and last of these people, becoming the “Great Flagbearer of the Proletarian Revolution” and a member of the Gang of Four. For the point, name these women who were married to the ﬁrst chairman of the Communist Party of China.---This author compared the “Mental Lives of Savages and Neurotics” in one work. He ﬂed from the Nazis after his daughter, the author of The Ego and Mechanisms of Defense, was interrogated by the Gestapo. This author of Civilization and its Discontents developed a model of the psyche as id, ego, and super-ego. For the point, name this Austrian psychologist, the author of The Interpretation of Dreams.---One subject of this event, Richard Queen, was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis during it. Eight American soldiers were killed near Tabas in Operation Eagle Claw, an aborted attempt to end this event. Its perpetrators demanded that Reza Pahlavi be returned from American asylum for trial. This event ended mere minutes after Ronald Reagan was sworn into oﬃce. For the point, name this event in which workers at an American embassy in Tehran were captured and held for 444 days.---The Lusail Iconic Stadium is to be built in this country. Hassan al-Thawadi claimed this country would invent new air conditioning systems for that stadium, until the February 2015 announcement that a winter schedule would be used. Stadium construction in Al Khor and Al Rayyan in this country has been plagued with human rights violations and deaths. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country, the controversial host of the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Qatar---In this state, the Percy Jones Army Hospital was built on the grounds of the former Battle Creek Sanitarium, which was operated by J. H. Kellogg, the inventor of Corn Flakes. This state operated the Morrill Act’s ﬁrst land-grant university. In addition to that school in East Lansing, this state is home to a research university in Ann Arbor. For the point, name this state where the Renaissance Center, home to General Motors headquarters, stands in Detroit.---This leader supported the killings of the Acholi and Lango ethnic groups at the Jinja barracks. In 1972, this leader expropriated Indian-owned property by forcing his country’s 80,000 Asian residents to leave. This self-proclaimed “Conqueror of the British Empire” also gave himself the title “Lord of all the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Seas” shortly after overthrowing Milton Obote and taking power in Kampala. For the point, name this former dictator of Uganda.---This ruler had his wife, Fausta, killed by leaving her in an overheated bath. He won a battle to come to power after having a vision of a labarum accompanied by the words “in this sign, you will conquer.” At that battle, this ruler allied with a future rival, Licinius, to defeat Maxentius at the Milvian Bridge to take control of Rome. For the point, name this ﬁrst Roman emperor to convert to Christianity.---In the second century AD, Hua Tuo created a mixture known as “mafeisan” to serve this purpose. George Harley pioneered the use of ACE mixture for this task, but in the 20th century, the C in ACE, chloroform, stopped being used for this task due to associated cardiac complications. Diethyl ether and nitrous oxide can be used to accomplish this purpose through inhalation. For the point, name this temporary, medically induced state in which a patient is unable to feel pain during surgery.---Mikhail Yegorov and Meliton Kantaria were said to have stood on this building in 1945. Its 1990s renovation was designed by Norman Foster, who built a large glass dome atop it. Communists were blamed for a ﬁre that burned this building in 1933; in reaction, Paul von Hindenburg decreed the imprisonment of opponents of the Nazis. The Bundestag meets in, for the point, what building that houses the German Parliament?---Cassander named himself King of this empire in 302 BC as part of the short-lived Antipatrid dynasty, which was overthrown by Antigonus. This empire’s 338 BC victory at Chaeronea allowed it to ally the Greek city-states against Darius III. Pausanias assassinated this empire’s ruler before the beginning of that war against Persia, which was decided at Gaugamela. For the point, name this ancient kingdom ruled by Philip II and Alexander the Great. Macedonia---Francisco Lopes Suasso ﬁnanced the campaign of one ruler during this event, in which one ruler ﬂed to France when his supporters were surprised and defeated on Broad Street by a Dutch force. The Jacobites attempted to restore the Stuart king who was deposed in this event. William and Mary gained the throne after, for the point, what 1688 revolution that ousted James II from England?---An ultra-dense “walled city” was demolished in this city in the 1990s. It is home to stilt houses known as pang uk, found on Lantau Island. I.M. Pei designed its Bank of China Tower. This city’s “New Territories” were leased to the United Kingdom in 1898 for 99 years. For the point, name this city near the Pearl River Delta which was returned to China as a Special Administrative Region in 1997.---This man called Mitch McConnell an “enormous obstacle” for his initial failure to renew the Zadroga Act, which funded health care for 9/11 ﬁrst responders. To direct the 2014 ﬁlm Rosewater, this man took a hiatus during which John Oliver replaced him; after his 2015 retirement, he was replaced by Trevor Noah. For the point, name this former Comedy Central host of The Daily Show.---One leader of this country is barred from becoming its president for having married a foreigner, Michael Aris. That politician was placed under house arrest for a total of 15 years by this country’s ruling military junta, which ignored the 1990 electoral victory of her National League for Democracy. Aung San Suu Kyi [chee] gained power after 2015 elections in, for the point, what Southeast Asian nation west of Thailand?---This ruler conquered the forces of King Nabonidus, who is disparaged by a cylinder describing this man’s plan for restoring Babylon. After defeating Astyages [uh-STY-uh-geez] and capturing Ecbatana, this man defeated Croesus [KREE-sus] of Lydia. This man built a new city, Pasargadae [pah-SAR-ga- DEE], as the capital of his new empire. For the point, name this “great” founder of the Achaemenid [uh-KEE-meh-nid] Empire in Persia.---This country signed the Treaty of Meuthen with England, with whom it had earlier allied in the Treaty of Windsor. The aftermath of the Battle of Aljubarrota saw this country crown John I king, and this country’s 1910 revolution overthrew a dynasty that was installed in this country’s Restoration War, the Braganza dynasty. This country was forced into a union with its neighbor by Phillip II, resulting in the Iberian Union. For the point, name this country, which borders Spain and has its capital at Lisbon. Portugal---One of these places was placed on land owned by Robert E. Lee’s wife that was conﬁscated by the government in 1864. Edward Everett spoke for two hours at the dedication of another of these locations, which another man claimed “we can not consecrate” in an address that opened “Four score and seven years ago”. For the point, name these locations, like the former battleﬁeld of Gettysburg and Arlington, where American soldiers are buried.---After one of these incidents in 2011, the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team cancelled its season. Poor security in Sharm el-Sheikh was blamed for allowing one of these incidents, for which ISIS claimed responsibility; that event, caused by a bomb, occurred over the Sinai Peninsula. For the point, name these disasters, after which information is gathered from “black boxes,” like a cockpit voice recorder.---In one of this author’s short stories, Robert Wilson watches a man shoot a buﬀalo as Margot shoots that man in the head. In a novel by this author of “The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber,” Pablo helps Robert Jordan blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War. This man wrote a novel based on his experience as an ambulance driver in World War I in which Catherine Barkley has an aﬀair with Frederic Henry. For the point, name this American author of For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Sun Also Rises.---This document’s Article XIII [”thirteen”] stated that “the union shall be perpetual,” a phrase omitted from its successor. John Dickinson’s committee drafted, and the Annapolis Convention improved, this document, which failed to enforce tax collection and whose weaknesses were exposed by Shays’ Rebellion. For the point, name this document replaced in 1788 by the U.S. Constitution.---The wife of Spartacus was an initiate into a cult worshipping this god. In the second century AD, Herodes Atticus built an odeon next to a theater honoring this god on the Acropolis. This son of Semele gained the epithet “twice-born,” as he was actually born through Zeus’ thigh. Bacchus was an alternative name of, for the point, what Greek god of fertility and wine?---Adolphe Thiers [t’yair] built a wall around this city in the 19th century. Its namesake university was founded in 1150 and is sometimes called the Sorbonne. This city’s oldest bridge was built under a ruler who said this city was “well worth a mass” after converting to Catholicism. The Pont Neuf crosses the Ile de la Cit´e over the Seine River in, for the point, what capital of France? Paris---A 1669 eruption on this island was diverted from the city of Catania by that city’s walls. Settlers from Corinth founded another city on this island where Archimedes was killed. This island is separated from Calabria by the Strait of Messina, and this island contains the tallest active volcano in Europe, Mount Etna. Syracuse is found on, for the point, what triangular Mediterranean island oﬀ the boot of Italy?---This leader attacked the general Cimon for taking bribes from a Macedonian king. He increased tensions with Lysander by moving the Delian League treasury to his city and his time in power saw the construction of a building under Iktinos and Kallikrates [keh-LIH-krah-teez] at the Acropolis. At the beginning of the Peloponnesian War, he gave a Funeral Oration and commissioned the Parthenon. For the point, name this leader of Athens during its Golden Age.---This painting was protected by sandbags during the 1943 bombing of Milan, which struck this painting’s home in the refectory of Santa Maria delle Grazie [grah-tzee]. This painting’s subjects are grouped in threes as they react to the central ﬁgure’s announcement. A man sitting near the Apostle Peter grasps a bag of silver coins while staring at his leader, who has predicted his own death. For the point, name this depiction of Jesus and the disciples painted on a wall by Leonardo da Vinci.---This city is supplied by the “Big Allis” natural gas generator, which shut down after lightning strikes in Buchanan. The Rockaways were unaﬀected by that problem, which came while the “Son of Sam” terrorized this city, because they were covered not by Consolidated Edison, but the Long Island Lighting Company. For the point, name this city where a 1977 blackout struck all but the borough of Queens, leading to rampant looting in the Bronx.---This ship inspired Karl Goetz to design a medal with a skeleton and the German phrase “Business Above All.” William Thomas Turner’s failure to zigzag near the Old Head of Kinsale may have helped lead to this ship’s fate, which was sealed when U-20, a German submarine, ﬁred one torpedo. An explosion of contraband ammunition sped the 1915 sinking of, for the point, what British ocean liner, whose sinking helped convince the U.S. to join World War I?---The Supreme Court ruled that this amendment protects corporate donations to political campaigns in the Citizens United case. Prior restraint almost always violates this amendment, as when President Nixon tried to use it to stop the New York Times from publishing the Pentagon Papers. For the point, name this Constitutional amendment that protects the freedoms of petition, assembly, press, religion, and speech. 1st Amendment to the U.S. Constitution---The North West Company and the Hudson’s Bay Company’s trading posts along this body of water included Fort William and Grand Portage, both gateways to western Canada. A 1975 storm on this body of water led to the sinking of the SS Edmund Fitzgerald. The two largest cities on this body of water are Thunder Bay, Ontario, and Duluth, Minnesota. For the point, name this largest of the Great Lakes.---
Sam Houston---Federalist Party---Wives of Mao Zedong---Sigmund Freud---Iranian hostage crisis (accept descriptive answers; prompt on partial answer)---Page 1 ---Michigan---Idi Amin Dada---Constantine I or Constantine the Great---general anesthesia (accept any word form, like anesthetic; prompt on “(medically induced) coma;” prompt on “(medically induced” unconsciousness)---Reichstag---Page 2 ---Glorious Revolution (accept the Revolution of 1688 before mentioned)---Hong Kong---Jon Stewart---Burma or Republic of the Union of Myanmar---Cyrus the Great or Cyrus II of Persia or Cyrus the Elder---Page 3 ---national military cemetery (accept additional information mentioning the U.S. Civil War)---airplane crash (accept any equivalent that describes the destruction of an aircraft; accept bombing of an aircraft after the ﬁrst sentence)---Ernest Miller Hemingway---Articles of Confederation---Dionysus (or Bacchus before mentioned)---Page 4 ---Sicily---Pericles---The Last Supper (or L’Ultima Cena; accept Il Cenacolo)---New York City---RMS Lusitania---Extra Question Page 5 ---Lake Superior Page 6---