C---False---60
In the prelude to this event, Ian Holbourn befriended a young Avis Dolphin. The HMS Juno left Cork Harbor to assist in the aftermath of this event but was called oﬀ by the Admiralty. The handling of this event prompted William Jennings Bryan to resign as Woodrow Wilson’s Secretary of State. The United States joined World War I in the aftermath of, for the point, what 1915 attack on a British liner by a German U-Boat?---A ship carrying this commodity lost its sails in a storm oﬀ the coast of Japan, eventually bringing the three sailors to the American coast via the Kuroshio Current. Cao Cao [sow sow] of the Wei Dynasty conquered a movement known as the Five Pecks of this commodity during the Three Kingdoms period. The ﬁrst domestication of this crop occurred in the Yangtze River valley. For the point, name this staple grain that is grown in paddies throughout Asia.---Leonide Massine’s choreography of this ballet was performed in Philadelphia in 1930 with Martha Graham dancing the lead role. This ballet, based on Lithuanian folklore, includes dance sections like “Games of the Rival Tribes.” This ballet’s opening “Adoration of the Earth” section features a high bassoon solo, which led Camille Saint-Saens to storm out during its premiere. A “terriﬁc uproar” occurred during the 1913 Paris premiere of, for the point, what Igor Stravinsky ballet?---In 692, the Two Ewalds, missionaries from Northumbria, were killed while attempting to convert members of this tribe to Christianity. An attack on a church in Deventer by these people sparked a war that included the Massacre of Verden. After a failed rebellion, a king of these people, Widukind, agreed to be baptized and selected Charlemagne as his godfather. For the point, name this Germanic tribe that, with the Angles, settled England.---This researcher measured correspondence chains to formulate his Small-World theory, which popularized the phrase “six degrees of separation.” Mail addressed to “Friends of the Nazi Party” was less likely to be passed along by passersby in this man’s “Lost Letter” experiment. During another experiment, this man found that most subjects were willing to administer harmful electric shocks if ordered to. For the point, name this psychologist who conducted a namesake experiment on obedience. Milgram---This man ordered Robert Eichelberger to capture the village of Buna or “not come back alive.” This man claimed to have invented the strategy of island-hopping, which he implemented in Operation Cartwheel. Newspapers refused to print a picture of this man towering over Hirohito, claiming that it ruined the Imperial mystique. For the point, name this American general who vowed “I shall return” after being forced to retreat from the Philippines during World War II.---In this country, a series of bombings on Easter 2019 were linked to ISIL and killed Christians at St. Anthony’s Shrine and other churches around the capital. A rebel from this country, Selvarasa Pathmanathan, was on Interpol’s Most Wanted list in connection with the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, a Prime Minister from this country’s nearest neighbor. For the point, name this island country where the Tamil Tigers once fought for independence oﬀ the coast of India.---A politician with this surname gave the military immunity following an attack on the Santisimia Trinidad. The Justicialist Party was founded by a man with this surname. A failed coup against a politician with this surname began with the bombing of the Plaza de Mayo. That politician, who was forced to ﬂee to neighboring Paraguay, was supported by the Descamisados. For the point, give this surname shared by two Presidents of Argentina, Isabel and her husband Juan.---Peter Jennings criticized this politician for not revealing his role in China Ventures, Inc. The idea of shuttle diplomacy was introduced by this man, who helped negotiate a cease ﬁre following the Yom Kippur War. In 1973, this man and Le Duc Tho were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the Paris Peace Accords. For the point, name this controversial Secretary of State who advised Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford during the Vietnam War.---This monarch limited the rights of free blacks and expelled Jews from his colonies with his Code Noir. The Grand Alliance was created to combat this king, who later dismantled it and secured Alsace in the Treaty of Ryswick. This king’s Edict of Fontainebleau removed the religious rights of Huguenots in his country. The Palace of Versailles was built on the orders of, for the point, what French “Sun King?”---In a novel set in this city, Esperanza and her family dream of living in an upper class neighborhood that they visit every Sunday. The Younger family attempts to move out of this city’s ﬁctional Clybourne Park in A Raisin in the Sun. Richard Wright wrote about the poor and disillusioned Bigger Thomas living in this city’s South Side. For the point, name this large Midwestern city, the home of Gwendolyn Brooks, who wrote For Illinois, 1968. Chicago---The Hittite king Suppiluliuma I may have sent a son to marry this woman, only for him to die en route to Carchemish. This woman may have assumed a male alter-ego, Smenkhkare [smenk-kah-ray], to rule after the death of her husband at the end of the Amarna Period. With her husband, this woman promoted the monotheistic faith of Aten. For the point, name this wife of Akhenaten who possibly ruled as an early Egyptian pharaoh.---A way to sequence this material was invented by Frederick Sanger. In the central dogma of molecular biology, this material is transcribed. Okazaki fragments are formed when this material is replicated. A study conducted by Rosalind Franklin and published by Francis Crick and James Watson showed that this material takes the form of a double helix. For the point, name this biological molecule, found in the nucleus of the cell, that stores genetic information.---In the prelude to this event, George Rappleyea attempted to hire H.G. Wells, but Wells refused as he had no legal training. The defendant in this case intentionally violated the Butler Act in order to force this trial to occur. Clarence Darrow defended one side in this case but failed to defeat the arguments of William Jennings Bryan. For the point, name this 1925 trial in which a Tennessee teacher was ﬁned $100 for teaching evolution.---In 1985, a statue of this company’s mascot was thrown into the Dotonbori River, beginning an eighteen-year curse on the Hanshin Tigers. At Expo “70, this company ran a test site in Japan, where its products have become a traditional Christmas meal. After selling this company, its founder was sued for calling its new products “wallpaper paste” and “a damn fried doughball stuck on some” meat. For the point, name this American fast food chain founded by Harland Sanders, whose blend of eleven herbs and spices is “ﬁnger lickin” good.”---While in Bristol, a supporter of this movement attacked Winston Churchill with a dog whip. The Cat and Mouse Act, which allowed for the temporary release of prisoners, was passed after supporters of this movement were force-fed during hunger strikes. Emmeline Pankhurst founded the Women’s Franchise League in support of this movement. For the point, name this 20th century movement which sought to double the voting population in the United Kingdom. women’s suffrage (accept answers related to women getting the right to vote; prompt on---This man founded the League of Gileadites to prevent the capture of former slaves through the Fugitive Slave Act. In response to the Sacking of Lawrence, this man killed ﬁve settlers in the Pottawatomie Massacre. Marines led by Robert E. Lee defeated this man at a federal armory in Virginia. For the point, name this abolitionist who was hanged after his raid on Harpers Ferry. Brown---Near the start of this event, Jules Brunet served as a military adviser to the breakaway Republic of Ezo. During this event, the national government created the hyojungo, a standardized dialect meant to unify the country. The Boshin War started this event, during which the last Tokugawa Shogun ﬂed Osaka Castle. For the point, name this 1868 event in which the namesake emperor restored imperial power in Japan.---In 2017, this painting was used as the centerpiece of the “Pity and Terror” exhibition at the Queen Soﬁa Museum, a celebration of its 80th anniversary. At the top of this painting, a light bulb in a lamp mimics the shape of a human eye. A screaming horse appears in the center of this painting that was created as a reaction to the bombing of a Basque village. The Spanish Civil War is the backdrop for, for the point, what artwork by Pablo Picasso?---During this war, John Pettyjohns won the ﬁrst ever Victoria Cross for his heroism at the Battle of Inkerman. William Russell chronicled a cavalry attack on troops led by Colin Campbell during this war, and coined the phrase “thin red line.” A miscommunication at this war’s Battle of Balaclava led to the ill-fated Charge of the Light Brigade. The Siege of Sevastopol took place in, for the point, what 1853 war between Russia and a British-French-Ottoman alliance?---Land in the Amazon rich in this resource was sold oﬀ to Chinese companies by Rafael Correa’s Ecuadorian government. L´azaro C´ardenas invoked Article 27 of the Constitution of Mexico to nationalize this industry in 1938. Processing of this resource in Venezuela is dominated by PDVSA, which operates wells in the Maracaibo basin. For the point, name this ﬁnite resource which has been reﬁned to create fossil fuels.---To complete this project, Canvass White was forced to study in the United Kingdom as there were no civil engineers in the United States at the time. Over a thousand workers on this project were aﬄicted with malaria while working in Montezuma’s Marsh. This waterway ends with the Black Rock Lock in Buﬀalo. For the point, name this canal in New York, derisively called “Clinton’s Big Ditch,” that connected the Hudson River to the namesake Great Lake.---B´ela Kun started a short-lived Communist republic in this country, which fell apart after an invasion led by King Ferdinand. In this country, the Nazi-backed Arrow Cross party overthrew Miklos Horthy, who had been selected as regent following a series of revolutions. The Treaty of Trianon gave much of this country’s territory to neighboring Romania in the aftermath of World War I. For the point, name this country that was once in a dual monarchy with Austria. Hungary (do not accept Austria-Hungary)---In a ballad, a worker from this country tells his captain that “a man is nothing but a man.” That worker from this country supposedly died with a hammer in his hand shortly after beating a machine in a rock-drilling contest. In a story from this country, a companion of Sourdough Sam bestows the name “Babe” on a massive blue ox that he ﬁnds and adopts. For the point, name this country that developed folklore about John Henry and Paul Bunyan.---Forces from this country under Yigal Allon raised the “Ink Flag” after the 1949 capture of Umm Rashrash. This country’s special forces executed Operation Yonatan to rescue hostages being held at Entebbe airport. In 1967, this country launched the preemptive Operation Focus to start an invasion of neighboring Egypt as part of the Six-Day War. For the point, name this Jewish state with cities like Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.---A commander in this war allegedly chose to spare a town after its mayor was able to drink 3 liters of wine. This war’s Battle of the Rain led to the death of Count Tilly and his replacement by Albrecht von Wallenstein. This war’s Battle of Breitenfeld led many German states to ally with a Protestant coalition, but the Battle of Lutzen led to the death of that coalition’s greatest commander, Gustavus Adolphus. For the point, name this European religious conﬂict that lasted from 1618 to 1648.---A leader of this country mistakenly believed it had been recognized by the Holy See after Ambrose Dudley Mann mistranslated a letter from Pope Pius IX. Two diplomats from this country were illegally seized from a British ship in the Trent Aﬀair. This country attempted to persuade France and the United Kingdom to support it in a war against its northern neighbor by engaging in cotton diplomacy. For the point, name this rebellious state that was defeated in the American Civil War.---This island is home to the 12th Space Warning Squadron, which operates near Saunders Island at Thule Air Base, the US Air Force’s northernmost air base. Harry Truman oﬀered to buy this island for one hundred million dollars in 1946; in 2019 via tweet, Donald Trump oﬀered to buy this island, prompting ridicule from the Prime Minister of Denmark. For the point, name this largest island in the world.---Members of this profession were managed by lanistas who trained them at ludi. Septimius Severus banned women from this profession after watching men cat-call them at the Antiochene Olympic Games. The Third Servile War began after a group of people in this profession ﬂed Capua. In staged damnatio ad bestias, members of this profession clashed with lions. For the point, name this profession whose members often fought each other in the Colosseum. gladiators (prompt on “slaves”)---The area surrounding this natural feature is the longtime ancestral home of the Havasupai people. In 1869, the Powell Geographic Expedition completed a survey of the Green River and the entirety of this natural feature. Troops under Francisco Vazquez de Coronado became the ﬁrst Europeans to reach this natural feature in the 1540s. A skywalk overlooks the West Rim of this feature in Eagle Point, Arizona. For the point, name this gorge carved by the Colorado River.---In this century, Europe’s oldest alliance, between the nations of Portugal and England, was signed. Timur established his namesake dynasty in Central Asia in this century, and Mansa Musa undertook his hajj to Mecca in this century. Edward III claimed the French throne in this century, starting what would become the Hundred Years” War. The Black Death peaked in, for the point, what century?---
the sinking of the RMS Lusitania---rice---The Rite of Spring (or Le Sacre du Printemps)---Saxons (prompt on Germans)---Stanley Page 1 ---Douglas MacArthur---Sri Lanka---Peron (accept Martinez before “Justicialist” is read)---Henry Kissinger---Louis XIV (accept Louis the Sun King before “Sun King” is read; prompt on Louis)---Page 2 ---Nefertiti (accept Neferneferuaten)---DNA (accept Deoxyribonucleic acid)---Scopes Monkey Trial (accept State of Tennessee v. John Scopes)---KFC (accept Kentucky Fried Chicken)---suﬀrage)---John Page 3 ---Meiji Restoration---Guernica---Crimean War---crude oil (accept petroleum)---Erie Canal---Page 4 ---United States of America (accept either underlined portion; accept USA)---Israel---Thirty Years’ War---Confederate States of America (accept CSA; accept The Confederacy)---Greenland (or Kalaallit Nunaat)---Page 5 ---Grand Canyon Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---14th century AD (or 1300s) Page 6---