B---True---66
This program refurbished the Cominco plant as part of its P-9 Project, and it absorbed the similar British “Tube Alloys” program under the direction of Leslie Groves. One of its facilities was built to take advantage of TVA hydroelectric dams at Oak Ridge, and it used a gun range at Alamogordo to carry out the July 16, 1945 Trinity test. For the point, name this program led by J. Robert Oppenheimer from Los Alamos National Labs, where the ﬁrst nuclear weapons were produced.---Philip Wigle and John Mitchell had their death sentences commuted for their roles in this event. The Mingo Creek Association was enraged by John Neville’s change of heart regarding this event. General “Light-horse Harry” Lee gained fame for putting down this rebellion, the only time a sitting U.S. President led troops in the ﬁeld. It stemmed from Alexander Hamilton’s eﬀort to repay the public debt from the Revolutionary War. An unpopular excise tax triggered, for the point, what Western Pennsylvania revolt over a distilled spirit?---One section of this work establishes solidarity with the Chartist and agrarian reform movements. This book advocates ten “planks,” including a graduated income tax and universal free education, and its opening describes the opposition posed by a “holy alliance.” This work claims that “a spectre is haunting Europe,” and deﬁnes history in terms of class struggles. For the point, name this 1848 work that implores the “workers of the world [to] unite,” written by Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx, which inspired a namesake political movement.---This mountain, whose last eruption created Mount Hoei [how-ay], lies on the triple point of three tectonic plates, including the Amurian. A forest at the base of this mountain is the second most common location of suicides in the world, after the Golden Gate Bridge, and is known as the Sea of Trees. The Tokaido road is often used by travelers visiting this mountain, though a popular saying calls anyone who climbs it twice a fool. A set of 36 prints depicting Views of this mountain was created by Hokusai. For the point, name this peak located in Honshu, the highest mountain in Japan. Fuji---Public opinion on this event changed after the publication of Thomas Maule’s Truth Held Forth and Maintained. One person in this event was accused of using the Malleus Maleﬁcarum; that African slave, Tituba, was owned by Samuel Parris and had supposedly corrupted Abigail Williams. For the point, name these 1690 hearings in which 20 people were executed for supposedly working with Satan.---This country’s last monarch was a member of the Barakzai dynasty. An interview in Rolling Stone caused Stanley McChrystal’s removal from this nation. The Durrani Empire was centered in this modern country, where two large monuments were destroyed in the Bamiyan Valley in 2001 and where Operation Enduring Freedom helped install a government led by Hamid Karzai. For the point, name this country ruled from Kabul.---Al Gionfriddo caught a long ﬂy ball hit by this player in the 1947 World Series that would have tied the game had they not been playing in Yankee Stadium. In a Paul Simon song, “A nation turns its lonely eyes to” this man, the ﬁrst athlete to receive a six-ﬁgure salary. This brother of Boston Red Sox outﬁelder Dom preceded his most famous accomplishment with a 61-game string in the minor leagues. For the point, name this “Joltin’” Yankee outﬁelder whose 56-game hitting streak in 1941 remains the major league record.---John Balliol was replaced by a council of twelve after holding this position for only four years. The Darien Scheme perpetrated by holders of this title failed to create a colonial empire based in Panama. Idi Amin’s fantastical claim to be the last one of these people was made into a 2006 ﬁlm. After the death of King Elizabeth I, a holder of this title from the Stuart line gained control of the English monarchy. For the point, name this title, held by James VI, abolished by the Acts of Union of 1707 that subsumed its namesake country into Great Britain.---During Operation Pastorius, 8 intelligence operatives inﬁltrated this country. The Lookout Air Raids caused numerous ﬁres in this country, and one of this country’s oil ﬁelds was bombarded by the I-17. This country names a bomber designed by the German Ministry of Aviation for long-range attacks, and six people died in this country after the explosion of a Fu-Go, a ﬁre balloon, in 1945. For the point, name this country, whose Aleutian Islands were invaded during World War II.---Eduard Goldstucker’s Literarni noviny periodical inﬂamed tensions before this event, and Klement Gottwald’s broken promises were attacked in one speech delivered during this event. The power of the StB secret police was curbed as part of the Action Program, which was pronounced during this movement. Its leader attempted to implement “socialism with a human face,” but this liberalization eﬀort was [doob-check] led, for the point, what 1968 eventually overturned by Soviet force. Alexander Dubcek Eastern European uprising centered on the capital of Czechoslovakia?---A “Priest King” statue from this civilization’s late period is missing both of its arms, and steatite seals of elephants and unicorns have been discovered at the civilization’s two main cities. A “dancing girl” ﬁguring from this culture made of bronze is currently displayed in the Karachi Museum, and the ﬁrst urban sanitation systems in the world were created by this civilization. The Aryan invasion hypothesis describes the end of this civilization around 1000 BC. For the point, name this Bronze Age civilization located by a namesake river in northern India and Pakistan.---Members of this country’s military were absolved from prosecution by the Law of Due Obedience. This country experienced the Infamous Decade after the overthrow of Hipolito Yrigoyen. This country was ruled as a military dictatorship under Leopoldo Galtieri in the early 1980s. The children of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo “disappeared” during the Dirty War in this country. For the point, name this country once ruled by Juan Peron from Buenos Aires.---In this event, Nicholas Hubbard and the playwright Pierre Beaumarchais were part of one side, while Francis Dana declined an oﬀer to participate for the other. Lucien Haunteval requested that merchant claims be paid oﬀ by the American government in this event, and Jean-Conrad Hottinguer’s demand for a 50,000 pound bribe to meet with Charles Talleyrand was met with the reply, “No, no, not a sixpence!” The Quasi-War resulted from, for the point, what Adams administration scandal involving Elbridge Gerry, Charles Pinckney, and three unnamed French diplomats?---Bernice Fisher was regarded as the “godmother” of this technique, which CORE frequently used. The Friendship Nine were convicted of practicing this action in Rock Hill, South Carolina, after which they proclaimed “Jail, No Bail.” These events often took place at drug stores, such as ones at Morgan State Colllege in 1955 and a famous one at a Woolworth’s store in Greensboro, North Carolina. For the point, name this form of protest during the Civil Rights Movement, which involves occupying an area in protest.---One ruler of this empire ordered the slaughter of cows so that their calves would empathize with him after the death of his mother, Nandi. This empire’s rise led to a chaotic period called Mfecane, or “the crushing.” One leader of this empire introduced a — short spear, the iklwa, to its impi forces. This empire defeated British forces at — Isandlwana before over-advancing and losing at Rorke’s Drift on the Natal border. For the point, name this South African empire led by Cetshwayo and Shaka.---This author wrote a collection of essays detailing “Life in George W. Bush’s America.” One of this author’s characters plays piano at the Holiday Inn in Midland City. That character, Bunny, and his father, Dwayne Hoover, appear in this man’s novel Breakfast of Champions. This author wrote about a man who meets Eliot Rosewater while in a mental ward after surviving the ﬁrebombing of Dresden, which this author survived as well. For the point, Billy Pilgrim travels to the planet Tralfamadore after becoming “unstuck in time” in what American author’s Slaughterhouse Five ?---This government created a “Foundation for the Study of Human Problems” that advocated the use of eugenics. A bicycle velodrome was used by this government during the Vel’ d’Hiv Roundup to house Jewish detainees. This successor government to the Third Republic, whose motto was “Work, Family, Fatherland,” was headed by the victorious commander at the Battle of Verdun. For the point, name this fascist French government led by Marshal Philippe Petain during World War II.---This man replaced Abel Upshur after the USS Princeton incident, and as James Monroe’s Secretary of War, he created the Bureau of Indian Aﬀairs. This man became the ﬁrst U.S. vice president to resign after the Peggy Eaton aﬀair soured his relationship with his former running mate. For the point, name this author of the South Carolina Exposition and Protest, a senator who advocated for nulliﬁcation. Calhoun---One of these events was led by Nils Dacke in Sweden against Gustav Vasa. Jack Cade led one of these events that looted London before being driven out by its citizens. One led by Guillaume Cale in Normandy was called the Jacquerie. John Ball encouraged one of these events that destroyed the Savoy Palace, eventually forcing Richard II to agree to abolish sefdom at Mile’s End. Wat Tyler led, for the point, what sort of event, in which angry farmers revolted against the government?---This city’s ﬁrst female mayor was Rosario Roble, and it is currently led by Miguel Mancera. An 8.0 magnitude earthquake struck this city in 1985, and as this city hosted the 1968 Summer Olympics, students were killed in this city’s Square of the Three Cultures in the Tlatelolco Massacre. The Angel of Independence stands above a mausoleum honoring Miguel Hidalgo in this city’s Paseo de la Reforma. For the point, name this North American city, the largest Spanish-speaking city in the world. Mexico City---The Black Tom explosion killed 7 people in New Jersey during this war. The Four Minute Men, working for George Creel’s Committee on Public Information, spread propaganda supporting this war. Henry Cabot Lodge was an early advocate for this war, which William Jennings Bryan protested by resigning as Secretary of State. The interception of the Zimmerman telegram and the sinking of the RMS Lusitania sparked U.S. entry into, for the point, what war that Woodrow Wilson failed to “keep us out of?” World War I---This man defeated Muzio Clementi in a duel before Emperor Joseph II. He wrote out none of the cadenzas for a Clarinet Concerto written for Anton Stadler. A ﬁve-voice fugato that recapitulates all of the themes from the last movement ends his 41st symphony, while another work by this man, his Serenade No. 13, opens with a Mannheim rocket theme. For the point, name this Austrian composer of the Jupiter Symphony and the light “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.”---Commerce ﬂowing in and out of this body of water were subject to the Sound Dues, and the Skane market was an annual herring market on this body of water. The Victual Brothers pirated commerce in this body of water, with safe ports at Rostock and Straslund, as well as the island of Gotland. Kronstadt guarded the approach from this body of water to St. Petersburg, and it is connected to the North Sea by the Kiel Canal. The Hanseatic League dominated trade in, for the point, what body of water, bordered by Germany, Sweden, and Denmark?---This man described himself as “obnoxious, suspected, and unpopular” in order to persuade Thomas Jeﬀerson to write the Declaration of Independence. This man’s Thoughts on Government was written in praise of mixed constitutions. As a lawyer, he claimed that “Facts are stubborn things” as he acquitted six British soldiers who participated in the Boston Massacre. This man signed the Alien and Sedition Acts to quell dissent during the Quasi-War. For the point, name this second President of the United States.---The main divisions in this man’s works were created by Aristarchus of Samothrace. This author’s use of the phrase “wine-dark sea” has led some scholars to posit that the color blue was undeﬁned during Antiquity. Lost works in this man’s “Epic Cycle” include the Epigoni and the Nostoi, as well as a “Little” version of a work by this man that opens with the “Rage of Achilles”. For the point, name this blind Greek bard of the Odyssey and the Iliad.---The Barid was a postal service established during this empire, which suﬀered a Berber revolt under Hisham. This empire was founded in the aftermath of the First Fitna and was dissolved after Abdallah ibn Ali defeated Marwan II in the Battle of the Zab. Charles Martel defeated this empire at Tours. For the point, name this Islamic caliphate founded by Muawiyah, a dynasty led from Damascus that succeeded the Abbasids. Umayyad Caliphate---One of the ﬁrst engagements in this conﬂict was the Battle of W¨orth, which followed a brief advance towards Saarbru¨cken. The Chassepot riﬂe was unable to defeat steel Krupp artillery in this war, which saw Marshal Bazaine was besieged in Metz with the Army of the Rhine. Helmuth von Moltke the Younger surrounded the Army of Chˆalons during this war, ending the Second Empire at the Battle of Sedan. For the point, name this brief war, which saw the defeat of Napol´eon III by a country led by Otto von Bismarck. Franco-Prussian War---Before it commemorated Princess Diana, a 1973 version of Elton John’s song “Candle in the Wind” mourned the death of this ﬁgure. A publicity photograph from the ﬁlm Niagara was used to create a diptych of this actress, and she sported a pink dress in a rendition of “Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend.” Her last completed ﬁlm, The Misﬁts, was written by her ex-husband Arthur Miller. The Seven Year Itch and Some Like It Hot starred, for the point, what blonde actress who died in 1962 at age 36?---Judicial Watch was the ﬁrst organization to bring attention to this set of documents. Bryan Pagliano was tasked with watching over these documents. A Romanian hacker nicknamed “Guccifer” hacked some of these documents sent by Sidney Blumenthal, and Richard Leon angrily denounced the State Department’s speed in releasing these documents. The House Select Committee on Benghazi has been investigating, for the point, what set of communications sent by a former Secretary of State?---Abraham Ribicoﬀ claimed that “Gestapo tactics” were used during this event against protesters, including Abbie Hoﬀman and Bobby Seale. Richard Daley’s police force was criticized for their handling of this event. Two months prior to this event, one of its expected participants was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan. For the point, name this political convention in which Hubert Humphrey was nominated for President, a few months before losing the election to Richard Nixon.---The 1928 San Felipe Segundo hurricane is also named for this lake, where it created storm surges that ﬂooded Pahokee and Belle Glade and killed thousands. After that hurricane, a new dike named for Herbert Hoover was built around this lake, in which “the muck” was once farmed. Its primary inﬂow is the Kissimmee River, and its sheet outﬂow into the Everglades was controlled in the 20th century by building canals to the Miami River. For the point, name this largest lake in Florida.---One work inspired by this event opens with a voice repeating “missing.” A triple string quartet by Steve Reich commemorating this event opens with the ﬁrst violin imitating a phone left oﬀ the hook. John Adams’ On the Transmigration of Souls memorializes this event with sound from the voice recorder of American Airlines Flight 11. A 1,776 foot tall building nicknamed “Freedom Tower” was built to remember and replace two towers that were destroyed during this event. For the point, name this 2001 terrorist attack. September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks (or 9/11/01 attacks; accept equivalent descriptions)---This city’s Yu Gardens were home to the Small Swords Society. Only foreigners were allowed in this city’s Huangpu Park until 1928. Zhou Enlai purged hundreds of Communists in a 1927 massacre in this city. This city is the world’s busiest container port city and is home to a waterfront district called the Bund, opposite the Oriental Pearl Tower. For the point, name this most populous Chinese city, which lies on the southern end of the mouth of the Yangtze River. Shanghai---A “gallery of steel” was built to execute Andriza Mircovich in this manner when its normal requirements could not be satisﬁed. John Albert Taylor said he chose this method of death so as to “not ﬂop around like a ﬁsh.” Utah’s governor Gary Herbert recently reinstated this method of execution in cases where lethal injection is not an option. Responsibility is diﬀused through the use of blank cartridges in, for the point, what method of execution in which a line of men shoot the victim?---During this time period, one man fell asleep while leading forces at the Battle of Klushino, leading to his defeat and death. A man named “Sidorka” was the last of a group of three usurpers to the throne during this period, and Vasily Shuysky’s ascension to the throne during this time resulted in the invasion of Sigismund III of Poland. The death of Fyodor I began this period, which was dominated by “false Dmitris” and ended by the ascension of Mikhail Romanov. For the point, name this period of turmoil in Russian history after the fall of the Rurik dynasty.---In the aftermath of this event, “Oklahoma houses” were built in Moxham to shelter the homeless, and Andrew Carnegie built a library that now houses a museum dedicated to this event. This event, which the courts labeled an “Act of God,” was caused by a lack of maintenance by a Fishing and Hunting Club, of which Henry Clay Frick was a member. Over two thousand people died when this event struck the Conemaugh Valley. A failed dam caused, for the point, what 1889 catastrophe in Pennsylvania, the deadliest ﬂood in American history?---Spectators of this event congregate on Henman Hill. This event was the ﬁnal major in its sport to adopt equal pay for men and women. Over three days in 2010, Nicolas Mahut and John Isner played the longest match in history at this tournament, where, in 2013, Andy Murray broke a 77-year streak without a Men’s Singles winner from the host country. For the point, name this tennis event played on grass courts at the All-England Club in London.---Former UAW President Leonard Woodcock was the ﬁrst person to serve in the modern incarnation of this position. John Huntsman resigned this position during the Obama administration to run for the 2012 Presidential nomination. Prior to being Director of the CIA, George H.W. Bush served in this role unoﬃcially, because this post didn’t exist until January 1979, shortly after the U.S. ended its diplomatic recognition of Taiwan. Max Baucus currently holds, for the point, what American diplomatic post based in Beijing? Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China---Francis Sands is a CIA operative during this conﬂict in Denis Johnson’s novel Tree of Smoke. Walter Dean Myers’ Fallen Angels, set during this conﬂict, is often banned in schools for its gory depictions of this war. Ted Lavender is shot while returning from the bathroom in the title story of a collection set during this war written by Tim O’Brien. For the point, name this war, the setting of The Things they Carried, which saw American soldiers attacked during the Tet Oﬀensive.---This civilization’s writing system is displayed by the Cascajal Tacamichapa. Matthew Stirling studied its sites at La Venta and Tres Zapotes. Art from this civilization shows “elongated men” as well as 10 large monuments found at San Lorenzo in modern-day Veracruz. For the point, name this Mesoamerican civilization dating from 1500 to 400 BC, known for its construction of large stone heads.---This man’s decision in Silverthorne Lumber v. U.S. ruled that evidence obtained from an illegal search was not allowed in court, a doctrine later known as the “fruit of the forbidden tree.” This man declared that “three generations of imbeciles are enough” while upholding Virginia’s forced sterilization law in Buck v. Bell, and he declared that the First Amendment did not give an “absolute right” to “shout ﬁre in a crowded theater”. For the point, name this Supreme Court justice who devised the “clear and present danger” test and was the son of a prominent Bostonian poet.---This law was questioned by Bentley’s paradox and re-applied in vector ﬁelds using surface integrals by Gauss. A test of this law used lead weights mounted on a torsion balance by Sir Henry Cavendish. This inverse-square law, the subject of a plagiarism dispute with Robert Hooke, relates a force to the product of two masses and the distance between them. Isaac Newton described, for the point, what law that describes how any pair of bodies are attracted to each other by a fundamental force?---This country’s only king served as Emir of Cyrenaica before uniting this country’s three provinces; that king was overthrown in 1969 by members of the Free Oﬃcers Movement. That movement was led by the author of The Green Book, who led this country for 42 years before being killed near Sirte by members of the National Transitional Council. King Idris once ruled, for the point, what African country where Muammar Gaddaﬁ ruled from Tripoli?---Edward IV appointed this man as “Lord of the North” until his death, and this man captured Berwick-upon-Tweed in 1482 while ﬁghting with Alexander, Duke of Albany. This man executed Earl Rivers and Thomas Vaughan while serving as Lord Protector for Edward V, and this ruler was opposed by Henry Staﬀord, the 2nd Duke of Buckingham before losing to a force led by Henry Tudor in 1485. The Princes in the Tower were allegedly killed by, for the point, what last Yorkist monarch of England who was defeated at the Battle of Bosworth Field? Richard III---One leader of this group wrote the essay collection Soul On Ice. Another member of this organization, Fred Hampton, was killed by Chicago Police as part of the FBI program COINTELPRO, which aimed to undermine it. This group used open-carry laws to patrol the streets with guns, and ran the Free Breakfast for Children program in its native Oakland. For the point, name this black nationalist group led by Huey Newton during its prominence in the 1960’s and 70’s.---This artist painted Dido Building Carthage and showed a legislative building on ﬁre in The Burning of the Houses of Lords and Commons. This artist painted a misty seascape of a ship that fought during the Battle of Trafalgar being towed to its ﬁnal berth, and depicted people drowning behind a Slave Ship. For the point, name this British artist of The Fighting Temeraire, who painted the “Great Western Railway” in Rain, Steam, and Speed.---This leader unretired after John Crosbie announced an unpopular gas tax and Joe Clark’s government dissolved. He refused to take cover after protesters threw bottles at him during the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day Riots, and he responded “Just watch me” to the question of how far he would go to solve the kidnapping of Pierre Laporte by the FLQ during the October Crisis. For the point, name this 1970s Liberal Prime Minister of Canada whose son, Justin, became Canada’s Prime Minister in 2015.---William Mason and Charles Richards designed this company’s Model P. The founder of this company names a historic district in Hartford, Connecticut which contains his manor, Armsmear. After being ﬁred from this company, Rollin White was hired by its competitor, Smith & Wesson. “The Gun that Won the West” was a .45 caliber revolver produced by, for the point, what gun manufacturer named after its founder, Samuel?---This author’s defense of David Hume in a letter written to his friend, William Strahan, was attacked for supposedly endorsing Hume’s atheism. This man argued for a system of universal education until age 10 in one work, and in one of his works, he argued for a comprehensive system of morality based on the concept of an “impartial spectator” within. This author of The Theory of Moral Sentiments noted that division of labor could increase productivity in industries such as pin-making. For the point, name this Scottish economist, most famous for his treatise The Wealth of Nations. Smith---In one role, this man has a bus door slammed in his face as his credit appears on screen. He directed a ﬁlm in which a meddlesome dog is strangled by Lars Thorwald, who is later repeatedly blinded by the protagonist’s camera ﬂashbulbs. The original ending of one of his ﬁlms features the Golden Gate Bridge being covered by the title creatures. In another ﬁlm by this director, Eva Marie Saint and Cary Grant are chased across Mount Rushmore. For the point, name this “Master of Suspense,” the director of Vertigo, The Birds, and North by Northwest. Hitchcock---A series of caves known as “Prairie Dog Village” were dug during this battle to house civilians. Victories at Port Gibson and Raymond set up the winning commander in this battle along a major river, and the losing commander at this battle failed to repel attacks on Champion Hill and Big Black River Bridge. A relief eﬀort by Joseph E. Johnston never reached this battle, which was fought over a hub on the Mississippi River. For the point, name this 1863 battle where Ulysses S. Grant’s Army of the Tennessee forced the surrender of John C. Pemberton’s Army of Mississippi at the namesake town.---The planned Operation Resurrection was intended to return this man to power, and this leader sparked the “Empty Chair Crisis” after qualiﬁed majority voting was instituted in the EC. This man ﬂed his nation’s capital after the failure of the Grenelle Accords to resolve the 1968 student protests in his nation’s capital, and he delivered the Appeal of June 18th during World War II as the leader of the Free French. For the point, name this ﬁrst President of the French Fith Republic.---One political faction in this state was originally known as the “Equal Rights Party” and was led by William Leggett. The “Barnburner” and “Hunker” factions split over the issue of slavery in this state. A Flour Riot in this state, part of the larger Panic of 1837, was led by the Locofoco faction of this state’s Democratic Party. Martin Van Buren created a namesake “Regency” in this state’s capital, which dominated the state legislature in the early 19th century. For the point, name this Northern state, which was long dominated by the political machine Tammany Hall.---Rachel Michalewicz withdrew from a Supreme Court case involving this practice. Questions involving “critical mass” are often used in deliberations regarding this practice, and Antonin Scalia controversially referred to the “mismatch” theory during oral arguments concerning this practice. The hashtag “StayMadAbby” has been used to criticize Abigail Fisher’s lawsuit against this policy used by UT-Austin [”U” “T” Austin]. For the point, name this policy which favors underrepresented groups in employment or college admission.---Bruce Jacob argued the losing side in this case, which overturned Betts v. Brady and extended Powell v. Alabama to non-capital cases. This unanimous decision, authored by Hugo Black, incorporated the Sixth Amendment in a case which acquitted a Panama City, Florida man charged with breaking into a pool hall. For the point, name this 1963 Supreme Court case which ruled that, even if they cannot aﬀord one, defendants have the right to an attorney?---A rebel group in this country was founded by Fred Rwigyema [we-jay-mah], who was killed on the second day of a civil war in this country. Paul Kagame took over that group, the RPF, which ended a ceaseﬁre after this country’s president, Juvenal Habyarimana, was shot down above Kigali Airport. For the point, name this central African country where hundreds of thousands of Tutsis were killed in a 1994 genocide.---A private Institute of Sex Research set up in this city during the 1920s coined the term “transsexual”. The play “I Am a Camera” was adapted from Christopher Isherwood’s novel “Goodbye to” this city, and was later made into the movie Cabaret. Berthold Brecht premiered his Threepenny Opera in this city, and many artistic endeavors in this city were later stopped by Ernst Rohm and the SA. For the point, name this bohemian center of the Weimar [VYE-mar] Republic during the 1920s, the capital of modern-day Germany.---This man’s ﬁrst two disciples made golden caskets in order to preserve the hairs given to them by this man, who later preached at a Deer Park. The “sangha” refers to a group of people who follow this man’s teachings, and relics of this man are known as “sarira.” This ﬁgure’s mother, the Queen Maya, dreamed of a white elephant before his birth, and he was kept from death, sickness, and poverty as a youth. This man’s religion gained popularity for its opposition to the caste system in India. For the point, name this founder of an religion that promotes the Four Noble Truths.---In one of this composer’s works, a title character allows himself to be wounded by Melot. In “Art and Revolution,” this man introduced the idea of the “total work of art.” One of his operas ends with the “Liebstod” and opens with a namesake harmonically-ambigous chord. This author of “Jewishness in Music” wrote The Mastersinger of Nuremberg, later used at Nazi rallies. For the point, name this German composer of Tristan and Isolde and the Ring of the Nibelung cycle.---During this election, an accusation of one side’s party platform requiring “some sort of Gestapo” to implement was received poorly by the public. The campaign promise “Let us face the future” was used by the winning side in this election, which saw Archibald Sinclair, the Liberal Party leader, lose his seat. The winning candidate in this election promised to create a universal National Health Service and replaced a man who had delivered the “blood, toil, tears, and sweat speech”. For the point, name this ﬁrst post-war election in the UK, which saw Winston Churchill’s Conservatives lose to Clement Attlee. United Kingdom general election of 1945 (accept UK, British, English election of 1945;---Frederick Muhlenberg was stabbed for supporting this agreement in the House, and eﬃgies of this treaty’s namesake were burned across the East Coast. The St. Croix River was set as a boundary in this agreement, and although the British retreated from their Western forts, it failed to stop impressment of American soldiers. For the point, name this 1794 treaty between the United States and Great Britain, negotiated by the ﬁrst Supreme Court Chief Justice.---Many of this event’s ideas were ratiﬁed with the Benedictus Deus. The Tridentine Creed was created in the aftermath of this council, which commissioned the Roman Catechism and produced an Index of Prohibited Books. The sale of indulgences was reaﬃrmed by this council, which responded to the burning of a copy of the bull Exsurge Domine [ex-oor-gay doh-mee-nay]. Pope Paul III convened, for the point, what church council that responded to Martin Luther’s Protestant Reformation?---One man from this country led the ﬁrst crossing of Greenland’s interior, and was the namesake of a League of Nations passport for refugees; that man was Fridjof Nansen. Another explorer from this country disappeared in 1928, while leading a rescue attempt for the survivors of the airship Italia ; that man had earlier led the ﬁrst successful expedition to reach the South Pole. Roald Amundsen was from, for the point, what Scandinavian country whose capital is Oslo?---During this war, Yegor Tolstoy successfully defended Taganrog during the Azov Campaign. Lord Raglan was criticized for another failed siege during this war. Florence Nightingale received the nickname “Lady with the Lamp” for tending to soldiers wounded in this war. The failed Charge of the Light Brigade took place in this war’s Battle of Balaclava, which failed to end the Siege of Sevastopol. For the point, name this 1850s war fought between Russia and an alliance of France, Great Britain, and the Ottoman Empire, named for a peninsula on the Black Sea.---This actress plays a character who is nearly abducted by Fingermen shortly before the Old Bailey is destroyed by a terrorist wearing a Guy Fawkes mask. This actress, who played Anne Boleyn in 2008, will play Jackie Kennedy in an upcoming ﬁlm. For the point, name this actress who played Queen Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy and won an Oscar for her role in Black Swan. Portman---This ruler founded the city of Antinopolis after the death of his Greek lover. This leader converted grain collectors known as Frumentarii into a secret police force. His forces defeated a rebellion started by Lucius Quietus, the Bar Kokhba revolt, and he ordered the construction of a fortiﬁcation at the River Tyne to prevent barbarian invasions. For the point, name this Roman emperor, the successor of Trajan, who built a namesake wall in Britannia. Hadrian or Publius Aelius Hadrianus Augustus---This artist painted a line of blindfolded soldiers in the aftermath of a mustard gas attack in Gassed. He painted an American president resting his hand on a stair railing in his Portrait of Theodore Roosevelt. This painter of El Jaleo [ha-lay-oh] caused controversy with his depiction of Virginie Gautreau wearing a revealing black dress. For the point, name this American painter of the Portrait of Madame X.---Henri Christophe and Alexandre Petion fought for control of this country, where Charles Leclerc ended a republic formed by the world’s ﬁrst successful slave rebellion. Named Saint-Dominque by the French, it was led by former slave Toussaint L’Ouverture until Napoleon sent a ﬂeet to Hispaniola. For the point, name this Caribbean nation that now shares its island with the Dominican Republic.---Arthur Scargill led a coal strike against this politician, and faced a conﬂict against Leopoldo Galtieri. This politician’s opposition to give children a third of a pint of milk per day led to the nickname, “Milk Snatcher.” This leader resigned from one position after instituting a poll tax known as the Community Charge, was targeted by the Brighton Hotel bombing, and won the Falklands War. For the point, name this “Iron Lady,” the ﬁrst female Prime Minister of Britain.---This event was described as a “journey for peace” in an announcement televised on NBC. Winston Lord was cropped out of photographs of this event. Henry Kissinger participated in this event, which began with a handshake with Zhou Enlai and included an hour-long conversation with Mao Zedong. For the point, name this 1972 event, the ﬁrst time a sitting U.S. President visited a country with capital Beijing.---The Earl of Dunmore built a 14-meter-high stone cupola in the shape of this food in Scotland. The Ginaca machine peeled and cored this fruit, whose crowns can be replanted. In 1900, a plantation and cannery were built by James Dole, cousin of Sanford Dole, the President of Hawaii. For the point, name this tropical fruit named for its resemblance to the cones of a conifer tree.---The exploits of Rodrigo Diaz during this period inspired a Castilian epic poem. After losing the Battle of Alarcos in this period, Alfonso VIII united Navarre, Aragon, Castille, and others at Las Navas de Tolosa against the Almohads. The Treaty of Granada signed by Ferdinand and Isabella ended, for the point, what centuries-long campaign by Christians to retake the Iberian Peninsula from the Moors? Reconquista---U.S. v. Seeger modiﬁed this policy by allowing non-religious exemptions, and U.S. v. O’Brien established that burning entities related to this policy counted as destroying government property. During the Civil War, anger over a $300 commutation fee led to a riot over this policy in New York. For the point, name this form of conscription operated by the Selective Service until it was retired by the United States following the Vietnam War.---The production of this commodity by indebted laborers in Samut Sakhon was investigated in 2015 by the Associated Press. In 2014, Charoen Pokphand Foods, the world’s largest farmer of this food, was found by The Guardian to purchase feed from ﬁshing boats manned by unpaid laborers. For the point, name this seafood that has been peeled by slaves in Thailand.---This group contested the independence of the Prince-Bishophoric of Warmia in the War of the Priests after losing to Poland and Prussia in the Thirteen Years War. The Livonian portion of this group was defeated at the Battle on the Ice by Alexander Nevsky, and King Jogaila and Duke Vytataus crushed this polity’s forces at the Battle of Grunwald, where they were led by Grandmaster Ulrich von Jungingen. For the point, name this military order of German Crusaders.---
Manhattan Project (prompt on descriptions of the American nuclear weapons development program)---Whiskey Rebellion---The Communist Manifesto (accept Manifesto of the Communist Party or Das Kommunistische Manifest or Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei)---Mt.---Salem Witch Trials Page 1 ---Afghanistan---Joe DiMaggio---King of Scotland---United States of America (or USA; accept America)---Prague Spring Page 2 ---Indus River Valley civilization (accept Harappa and/or Mohenjo-Daro)---Argentina---XYZ Aﬀair---Sit-ins (prompt on protest)---Zulu empire Page 3 ---Kurt Vonnegut Jr.---Vichy France (or Vichy government)---John---peasant wars (or peasant revolts, or anything indicating a conﬂict involving peasants; accept serfs in place of peasants before serf is mentioned)------Page 4 ---Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart---Baltic Sea---John Adams (prompt on Adams alone; do not accept John Quincy Adams)---Homer------Page 5 ---Marilyn Monroe (accept Norma Jeane Mortenson)---Hillary Clinton’s emails (accept either name; prompt on partial answers)---1968 Democratic National Convention (accept 1968 DNC; prompt on partial answers)---Lake Okeechobee------Page 6 ---death by ﬁring squad (accept descriptions of the executioner(s) shooting the condemned)---Time of Troubles (do not accept or prompt on “the Troubles”)---Johnstown Flood---The Championships, Wimbledon---U.S. Page 7 ---Vietnam War [cas-ca-hall] Block found in Lomas de---Olmec civilization---Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.---Newton’s Law of Universal Gravitation---Libya---Page 8 ---Black Panther Party (accept BPP or the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense)---Joseph Mallord William Turner (accept JMW Turner)---Pierre Trudeau---Colt’s (Patent Firearms) Manufacturing Company---Adam---Sir Alfred Joseph Page 9 ---Battle of Vicksburg---Charles de Gaulle---New York---Afﬁrmative action---Gideon v. Wainwright Page 10 ---Republic of Rwanda---Berlin---The Buddha (or Siddhartha Gautama, either name)---Richard Wagner---accept 1945 alone after “UK” is mentioned) Page 11 ---Jay’s Treaty---Council of Trent---Norway---Crimean War---Natalie---Page 12 ---John Singer Sargent---Haiti---Margaret Thatcher---Richard Nixon’s visit to China---pineapple---Page 13 ---draft (prompt on conscription before mentioned)---shrimp (or prawns)---Teutonic Knights (or Teutonic Order or Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem) Page 14---