C---True---71
One anti-Vietnam War politician with this surname inspired young voters to cut their hair to show support for his campaign. That man with this surname won the 1968 New Hampshire primary but lost the Democratic nomination. Joseph Welch asked “Have you no sense of decency, sir?” to a politician with this surname, who claimed to have a list of 205 suspect individuals. For the point, name this shared surname of Minnesota Congressman Eugene and anti-Communist Wisconsin Senator Joseph.---This politician owned a private fire department that refused to put out fires until this man haggled with the owner to buy the property. This governor of Syria ended the Third Servile War at the Battle of the Silarus River. This man died while attempting to defeat the Parthians at the Battle of Carrhae [KAR-eye], legendarily having gold poured down his throat. For the point, name this wealthy Roman general, a member of the First Triumvirate with Pompey and Julius Caesar.---A resurgence of this rebellion by the White Wave Bandits led Emperor Xian [shee-ahn] to flee from the imperial capital of Chang’an. Romance of the Three Kingdoms opens with this rebellion, outlining Cao Cao’s path to power. This second century CE peasant revolt led to a weakening of the Imperial authority of Emperor Ling and his government. For the point, name this Han era revolt by Taoist rebels wearing a colored garment.---In 1961, this team traded Lou Cordileone for a quarterback who would lead them to three consecutive NFL Championship Game losses. Fran Tarkenton played for this team between his stints with the Vikings, three years after the retirement of Y. A. Tittle. This team drafted Philip Rivers in 2004 before trading him for the quarterback that led them to two Super Bowl victories over the Patriots. For the point, Eli Manning played for what NFL team that shares MetLife Stadium with the Jets?---An early pioneer in this field was the daughter of Lord Byron, Ada Lovelace, who worked on the Analytical Engine with Charles Babbage. Hedy Lamarr’s work in this field was used by the United States Navy during World War Two, and Grace Hopper developed the COBOL language in this field. For the point, name this field of science, in which Margaret Hamilton created on-board flight software for the Apollo 11 mission.---Description acceptable: Tom Whittaker, who had his foot amputated after a car accident in 1979, became the first disabled person to achieve this feat in 1998. The first woman to accomplish this feat was Junko Tabei in 1975. Lhakpa Sherpa has accomplished this feat nine times, the most of any woman. Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary were the first people to accomplish, for the point, what feat of mountaineering?---During this decade, a Madame le Brun portrait of the French Queen “en Chemise” caused an uproar for showing the queen in an informal white dress and straw hat. The “Affair of the Diamond Necklace” contributed to the growing discontent with the French monarchy during this decade. Marie Antoinette was placed under house arrest during, for the point, what decade that saw the storming of the Bastille and the beginning of the French Revolution?---A former slave and ruler of this empire, Sakoura, was killed by Afar zealots while returning from his pilgrimage to Mecca. Another ruler of this empire defeated his Jollof [juh-LOFF] rivals at the Battle of Kirina according to the Epic of Sundiata. This empire ruled by the Keita Dynasty fell prey to the expanding Songhai in the 16th century. For the point, name this West African Empire ruled by mansas like Musa I.---This thinker posited that “the problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color-line” in a work that includes the chapter “Of Our Spiritual Strivings.” This man mapped the Black population of Philadelphia for his book The Philadelphia Negro. This man, who created the term “double consciousness,” argued that a “talented tenth” would lift up African-Americans. For the point, name this co-founder of the NAACP who authored The Souls of Black Folk.---One of these events was halted indefinitely by the decree Postquam Dei munere after the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War. The dogma of papal infallibility was reaffirmed at the first of these events called by Pius IX. The Second of these events ended the mandate that the mass needed to be given in “Ecclesiastical Latin” and could now be given in vernacular languages. For the point, give the collective name of these two councils held in the world’s smallest country.---The United Kingdom and France invaded this country in Operation Musketeer after signing the secret Sevres Protocol. Future Canadian Prime Minister Lester Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating an end to a crisis in this country, which ended the career of British Prime Minister Anthony Eden. Nikita Khrushchev funded the construction of the Aswan High Dam in this country. For the point, name this country that was expelled from the Arab League in 1979 after President Anwar Sadat signed a peace treaty with Israel.---Although this man’s Smalcald Articles were initially rejected, they made it into the Book of Concord. This leader asserted that the body of Christ was present in the Eucharist at the Marburg Colloquy, putting him at odds with Ulrich Zwingli. Charles V declared this leader heretical at the Diet of Worms, and this leader objected to the selling of indulgences, among other issues he had with the Catholic Church, in his Ninety-five Theses. For the point, name this man, considered the “Father of the Protestant Reformation.”---A song about this woman became popular on TikTok due to the phrase, “XO Baby.” That song, “Don’t Lose Your Head,” tells the story of this woman, a character in the 2019 pop musical Six. Thomas Cromwell implicated this woman in a scheme to kill the king, along with several of 

her supposed lovers. For the point, name this woman, the mother of Queen Elizabeth I, who was beheaded in 1536 by her husband, King Henry VIII.---Queen Mother of this empire, Ifra Hormizd, had her unborn child coronated after officials put a crown on her stomach. This empire’s founder, Ardashir I, defeated the dominant Parthians at the Battle of Hormozgan. Shapur the Great of this empire seized Roman Armenia and later failed to introduce Zoroastrianism there. For the point, name this longest-reigning Persian dynasty, the last Persian imperial dynasty before the arrival of Islam.---In a novel by this author, the slave Harry runs Nina Gordon’s southern plantation while another character preaches violent retribution for slavery. Pro-slavery author William Gilmore Simms strongly critiqued this author of Dred: A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp. Abraham Lincoln called this author “the little woman who wrote the book that started this great war,” in reference to a novel in which Eliza escapes to Canada by crossing an icy river. The title character is beaten to death by Simon Legree in, for the point, what author’s novel, Uncle Tom’s Cabin?---The base of this structure may have been influenced by the Church of the Kathisma, a Byzantine structure on the road to Bethlehem. The dedicatory Kufic script around this structure replaced the name of the Umayyad caliph who ordered it built with the Abbasid caliph who renovated it in the 9th century. Constructed during the Second Fitna on the site of the Second Jewish Temple, for the point, name this structure built over karsted limestone on which Abrahamic religions believe God created the first man.---The last of these rulers said “witness how my enemies shed my blood” shortly before being executed on orders of Viceroy Toledo. One of these people named Manco supposedly became one with the sun god Inti upon his death. The two sons of Huayna Capac, a man in this position, fought a prolonged civil war until Atahualpa emerged victorious for this kingship. For the point, name these rulers who were dethroned by conquistadors and the Spanish Empire.---A man with this first name routed opposing forces at the Battle of Vimory while leading Catholic troops. A Duke of Guise [geez] had this first name and was killed during a war named for three people with this name. A man with this name claimed that “Paris is well worth a mass” while converting to Catholicism so he could become the first Bourbon king of France. For the point, the fourth ruler with what name gave French Protestants many freedoms in the Edict of Nantes?---During the First Civil War in this island chain, Germany, the U.S., and the U.K. had a naval standoff but ultimately agreed that Malietoa Laupepa should be reinstated as king. After the Second Civil War, those same three countries signed the Tripartite Convention of 1899, dividing the islands between them. For the point, name these South Pacific islands, the largest part of which is an independent nation with its capital at Apia.---This artist’s painting of Christ holding a crystal ball and pointing upwards was sold for 450 million dollars at a 2017 auction. John the Baptist and Jesus play in front of a craggy landscape in this artist’s Madonna of the Rocks. This painter drew ideal human proportions in his sketch of the “Vitruvian Man.” This Renaissance Man also designed a helical wing, a parachute, and other flying devices. For the point, name this painter of two versions of Virgin of the Rocks as well as the Mona Lisa.---In this war, Prince Gaston of Orleans, the Count of Eu, led a massacre of poorly armed citizens in the city of Piribebuy. “I die with my homeland!” were the last words of a dictator who died in this war’s Battle of Cerro Cor ́a. This war began with that dictator, Francisco Solano Lopez, and the Brazilian government supporting opposite factions in the Uruguayan Civil War. For the point, name this devastating South American conflict during which Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay battled against Paraguay.---Workers in this industry comprised the “Eight Saints,” disenfranchised artisans and laborers who began the Ciompi [CHOMP-ee] Revolt of Florence. Many medieval churches and towns in East Anglia are named for this commodity due to being built by donations from merchants of this good. Ypres [EEP] and Ghent served as continental centers of this textile whose production collapsed in much of the world after the introduction of synthetic fibers. For the point, name this textile fiber sheared from sheep.---A promise of taking this action by Sim ́on Bol ́ıvar after the liberation of Gran Colombia was the condition made for aid from Alexandre P ́etion, a former ally of Jean Jacques Dessalines. Isabel the Redemptress championed the Golden Law of Brazil, leading to this action in 1888. Anastasio Bustamante forced this action on white Texans, who circumvented it by declaring one people group “Indentured Servants for Life.” For the point, name this action established by the 13th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution in 1865.---Two answers required. A 2019 revival of one of this duo’s productions saw Ali Stroker become the first wheelchair user to win a Tony Award. Another of this duo’s musicals was adapted into a 1997 film starring Brandy in the title role and Whitney Houston as the Fairy Godmother. The last song that this duo wrote together, “Edelweiss,” is sung as a statement of Austrian pride by the Von Trapp family. For the point, name this songwriting pair, whose hit Broadway musicals include Oklahoma!, Cinderella, and The Sound of Music.---This river, and the Nueces to its north, were the subjects of contesting border claims by two countries which was only definitively resolved after a war in the 1840s. Heavy use of irrigation from this river’s water has led to substantial decreases in its flow west of its Big Bend, a remote section of this river that has seen many illegal crossings. For the point, name this river which since 1848 has marked the eastern part of the boundary between the U.S. and Mexico?---This leader’s namesake economic policy involves “three arrows” of monetary easing. This head of state allied with the Komeito Party to form a coalition supermajority as leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, or Jiminto. This leader sought to change his country’s US-written Constitution to allow for a standing army, in part to combat aggression from North Korea. For the point, name this longest-serving prime minister of Japan, who resigned due to illness in August, 2020.---According to legend, Gong the Sage invented one of these devices made of jade that he used to trick a local governor into doing his bidding. The Mogao Caves contained the Diamond Sutra, the earliest scroll scholars can definitely say was used making this invention. Song Dynasty emperors sponsored the use of this invention to recreate the “Thirteen Classics of Confucius” for the imperial collection. For the point, the moveable type form of what device was invented by Johannes Gutenberg?---The Peace of Travendal forced Denmark to exit this conflict and return the lands of the Duke of Holstein-Gottorp. Foreign commander Charles Eug`ene de Croy ̈ was captured near Lake Peipus at this war’s First Battle of Narva. Czarist forces supported by the Kalmyk Khanate defeated Charles XII at this war’s Battle of Poltava. For the point, name this 18th century war during which Russia, led by Peter the Great, expanded into the Baltic states at Sweden’s expense.---After being accused of defrauding Native Americans, this man beat William Stanbury with a cane. This man won one battle by utilizing two cannons known as the “Twin Sisters.” This governor of Tennessee was deposed as governor of another state after refusing to swear loyalty to the Confederacy. This man, who won in battle against Santa Anna at San Jacinto, was elected to a position over Stephen Austin. For the point, name this first President of the Republic of Texas, the namesake of Texas’s largest city.---The Carvoran Roman Fort on this structure was connected by the 20 mile Maiden Way to Bravoniacum. This structure that buffered the wildlands of Caledonia extended west from the 

River Tyne, a waterway that empties into the North Sea. This structure that was temporarily superseded by the Antonine Wall was built to keep out marauding Picts. For the point, name this “Wall,” named for one of the Five Good Emperors, the ancient northern defensive line of the Roman province of Britannia.---Russian patriots adopted this man’s paraphrase of Matthew 26:52 as a slogan. This man is the title subject of Sergei Eisenstein’s 1938 film depicting an attempted siege by the Teutonic Knights. This man’s battles against the Swedes and Germans led the Soviet Union to name a civilian Order of Merit after him, and, in 1547, the Russian Orthodox Church canonized him. Credited with preserving Russia by befriending Sartaq Khan and subordinating to the Golden Horde, for the point, name this Prince of Novgorod.---
McCarthy (or Eugene McCarthy; or Joseph McCarthy)---Marcus Licinius ​ Crassus---Yellow Turban Rebellion (accept Yellow Scarves Rebellion)---New York Giants---Computing (accept answers that indicate connection to computers, computer programming, computer science, etc.)---Summiting Mount Everest (accept descriptions of climbing to the top of Mount Everest)---​ 1780 ​ s---​ Mali ​ Empire---W. E. B. ​ Du Bois ​ [dew-BOYSS] (or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois)---First and Second ​ Vatican Councils---Arab Republic of ​ Egypt---Martin Luther---Anne Boleyn---​ Sassanid ​ Empire (accept Sasanian Empire, Empire of Iranians, or Neo-Persian Empire)---Harriet Beecher ​ Stowe---Dome of the Rock (accept Qubbat al-Sakrah, accept Kippat ha-Sela)---Emperor of the Inca (accept Sapa Inca)---Henry or Henri (accept Henry of Guise, accept War of the Three Henrys, accept Henry IV)---Samoan Islands---Leonardo ​ da Vinci ​ (accept Leonardo)---War of the Triple Alliance (accept Paraguayan War before it is mentioned)---Wool---Abolition of Slavery (accept anything that implies ending slavery)---Richard ​ Rodgers ​ and Oscar ​ Hammerstein ​ II (accept in either order)---Rio Grande---Abe Shinzo (accept names in either order, prompt on Shinzo)---Printing Press---​ Great Northern ​ War---Samuel ​ Houston---Hadrian’s Wall Extra Question/Tiebreaker if needed---Alexander ​ Nevsky---