C---True---72
Stanley Forman won a Pulitzer for a picture in this city that shows Joseph Rakes attacking Ted Landsmark with an American ﬂag. Morgan v. Hennigan ruled that this city’s busing policy had created de facto segregation. In 1998, a federal court ruled that this city’s Latin school, the oldest public school in the United States, could no longer consider race when accepting students. For the point, name this city that, in 2018, stopped honoring racist owner Tom Yawkey with a street name outside Fenway Park, where the Red Sox play in Massachusetts.---Note: two answers required. One of these countries declared independence from the other on February 27, 1844, from La Puerta del Conde. Shortly after, Emperor Faustin I, a dictator of one of these two countries, launched a failed invasion of the other, led by Buenaventura Baez. In 1937, a dictator known as “El Jefe” [ell HAY-fay] ordered the Parsley Massacre along the frontier between these countries. Rafael Trujillo [troo-HEE-yo] and Papa Doc Duvalier [doo-vahl-YAY] were 20th century dictators of, for the point, what two Caribbean nations that share the island of Hispaniola? Haiti and the Dominican Republic (accept in either order)---Many of these people’s stanitsa villages were burned to the ground during a “Red Terror” named for their homeland. The Yaik sub-group of these people successfully recruited the Baskir people in a rebellion named for its leader, Yemelyan Pugachev. Much of the White Army that formed to resist the Bolsheviks in 1918 was made up of the Don and Kuban subsets of these people. For the point, name this military class of steppe horsemen of Ukraine and Southern Russia.---This entrepreneur accused the market for not caring “what’s best for us” in his 2018 book War on the Normal People. Venture for America, a non-proﬁt to “revitalize American cities,” was founded by this politician. This politician claimed that he was the opposite of Trump because he was an “Asian man who likes math.” A $1000 stipend per month for all citizens is a central policy of, for the point, what 2020 Democratic presidential hopeful who supports a Universal Basic Income?---This artist’s painting of six cloth inspectors is known either as The Sampling Oﬃcials or as Syndics of the Drapers” Guild. A boy carrying a horn of gunpowder appears on the left side of a painting by this artist. A man wearing a yellow outﬁt and holding a shortened pike is shown in a painting by this man that depicts the militia company of Frans Banning Cocq [COKE]. For the point, name this Dutch Golden Age artist of The Night Watch. Rembrandt van Rijn---This man’s son was labeled the “Unfortunate” after being exiled from Venice and eventually drowning in a river while ﬂeeing from the Battle of Garigliano. In the aftermath of this man’s death, Girolamo Savonarola started a Bonﬁre of the Vanities. With the blessing of Pope Sixtus IV, this man and his brother Giuliano were targeted in the Pazzi Conspiracy. Florence was ruled by, for the point, what grandson of Cosimo de Medici, a patron of the arts known as “the Magniﬁcent?”---A popular hiking trail in this mountain range passes through a pass nicknamed the “Dead Woman” and often begins near the city of Ollantaytambo. The terminus of that trail visits a “lost city” in this mountain range whose terraces and mortar-less masonry were rediscovered by Hiram Bingham. The city of Machu Picchu is one of many Inca ruins in, for the point, what major mountain range of South America?---After signing the Treaty of Moultrie Creek, this tribe, under the leadership of Neamaltha, moved south of Ocala. This tribe was the subject of Scott’s Massacre which was carried out as part of a campaign that included the burning of Anhaica. After successfully defending Fort Myers, American troops forced 500 members of this tribe to retreat into the Everglades. Andrew Jackson fought multiple wars against, for the point, what Native American tribe in Florida?---This creator of the Yam Route postal system pardoned his enemy and future general Jebe after that man hit him in the neck with an arrow in battle. This general was born near the river Onon with, supposedly, a blood clot in his ﬁst, a sign of future greatness. This ruler, a rival of Jamukha, forced the Jin Dynasty to retreat south of the Yangtze, and he and his son Jochi destroyed much of the Khwarezmian Empire. For the point, name this man who founded the Mongol Empire.---In this work, a man tells his friend that he may have agreed to a 999-year marriage, but he has the option to cancel every month. This work inspired an adaptation set in the Vietnam War, Miss Saigon. After meeting Kate, the title character of this opera puts an American ﬂag in her son’s hand before committing seppuku. For the point, name this Giacomo Puccini opera about a Japanese woman who kills herself after being abandoned by her American husband.---John Rabe was elected the leader of a safety zone in this city, partly due to his status in the Nazi Party. In a 1997 book, Iris Chang labeled an event in this city “The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II.” This city was besieged by Prince Asaka, who may have given an order to “kill the captives,” prompting atrocities like a beheading contest. For the point, name this Chinese city, the site of a 1937 massacre by Japanese forces. Nanking (accept Nanjing)---This general claimed that Phineas Riall exclaimed “Those are regulars, by God!” after meeting American forces at the Battle of Chippewa. Forces under Zachary Taylor were absorbed by this man in anticipation of his amphibious assault on Veracruz. Near the end of his life, this man developed the Anaconda Plan, which called for a massive blockade to suﬀocate the South. Mexico City was captured by, for the point, what general known as “Old Fuss and Feathers?”---A young Martin Luther King Jr. sang in a church choir for this ﬁlm’s premiere in Atlanta. After a year long search, the largely unknown British actress Vivian Leigh was cast as this ﬁlm’s leading lady. Hattie McDaniel, who won an Oscar for her role as Mammy, was unable to attend a premiere of this ﬁlm because it was segregated. For the point, name this 1939 ﬁlm, based on a novel by Margaret Mitchell, about the life of Scarlett O’Hara during the Civil War.---This event is commemorated by a statue in Seelow Heights that depicts a soldier wielding a PPSh [P-P-S-H]. A photograph of a soldier during this event had to be altered because his multiple watches proved that he had been looting. Karl D¨onitz was made President of the Flensburg Government during this event. To signal the completion of this event, soldiers who had crossed the Moltke Bridge raised their ﬂag over the Reichstag. For the point, name this 1945 event in which Soviet forces captured the capital of Nazi Germany.---With novelist Romain Rolland, this man developed the idea that religious sentiments arise from an “oceanic feeling” of unity. This man’s daughter Anna was among the ﬁrst researchers to discuss defense mechanisms. This psychologist claimed that children exhibit sexual attraction to their opposite-sex parent in his book The Interpretation of Dreams. For the point, name this Austrian formulator of the Oedipus complex and pioneer of psychoanalysis.---Nicholas Hubbard arranged a meeting with Jean-Conrad Hottinguer as part of this event. During this event, Charles Pinckney rejected negotiations through informal channels by exclaiming “No, no, not a sixpence!” Lucien Hauteval approached Elbridge Gerry during this event to secure a $50,000 bribe on the orders of Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand. The Quasi War was precipitated by, for the point, what 1797 incident in which three French diplomats attempted to secure bribes from an American delegation? XYZ Aﬀair---The European Union deployed peacekeeping troops to the eastern portion of this country in the Ituri War. After the outbreak of the Katanga Civil War in this country, its prime minister Patrice Lumumba was captured and executed by Belgian oﬃcers. A military dictatorship under Joseph Mobutu took over this country in the 1960s and later changed its name to Zaire. For the point, name this central African country that renamed its capital from L´eopoldville to Kinshasa in 1966. Democratic Republic of the Congo (or DRC; prompt on “Congo”; do not accept or---This politician fell for a hoax accusing Franklin Pierce of plotting against the United States, resulting in some of his powers being transferred to the War Department. In a debate over the Compromise of 1850, this man argued that new territories were governed by a “higher law than the constitution.” George F. Robinson was injured defending this man from an attempted assassination by Lewis Powell. For the point, name this Secretary of State under Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson who orchestrated the purchase of Alaska.---This man used knowledge gained from Anaxagoras to convince his navy to sail after they were too afraid to disembark during a solar eclipse. This man refused to allow an emissary from the state of Archidamus II to enter his realm, leading that king to invade Attica. This strategos, who died in a 429 BC plague, gave a funeral oration after the ﬁrst year of the Peloponnesian War. For the point, name this statesman who ruled during the Golden Age of Athens.---The Dongan Charter, created in this city, is the oldest city charter in the Western Hemisphere. This city’s mayor for much of the 20th century, Erastus Corning II, names its tallest skyscraper. A Plan of Union developed in this city was the genesis of a political cartoon of a dismembered snake captioned “Join, or Die.” A 1754 Congress named for this state capital was the ﬁrst representative body of the United States. For 10 points, name this capital city of New York State.---The Ocala Demands called for the reclamation of land speciﬁcally owned by this industry. Monroe Heath, then the Mayor of Chicago, recruited ﬁve thousand men to suppress this industry’s 1877 “Great Strike.” Leland Stanford was a member of the “Big Four,” a group that dominated this industry west of the Mississippi. The Interstate Commerce Commission was established to regulate this industry. Cornelius Vanderbilt made his fortune in, for the point, what industry used to transport freight over land?---Daniel Dennett discussed this person’s “dangerous idea.” This person’s ideas were championed by Thomas Huxley, who was nicknamed this person’s “bulldog.” Herbert Spencer developed a “social” form of this person’s thought. This scientist names the population of ﬁnches on the Galapagos, which he studied during his second voyage on the HMS Beagle. For the point, name this biologist and author of On the Origin of Species who developed the theory of evolution by natural selection. Darwin---Mario Ter´an oﬀered to execute this man because three of his friends, also soldiers named Mario, had just been killed in a skirmish with this man’s forces. This man assisted Jacobo Arbenz in his attempt to end the latifundia system in Guatemala. This author of the memoir The Motorcycle Diaries and a handbook on guerilla warfare was captured by CIA-backed Bolivian oﬃcers in October 1967. Revolutions in the Congo and Cuba were aided by, for the point, what Argentine Marxist revolutionary who worked with Fidel Castro? Guevara---This man’s son was derisively known as “Queen Dick” and diverged from what was called “The Good Old Cause.” This man allowed a massacre at the Siege of Wexford during his Irish Campaign. This member of the Rump Parliament used the New Model Army to defeat the English Royalists at the Battle of Naseby. This man’s son Richard succeeded him as Lord Protector in 1658. For the point, name this leader who fought the Royalists in the English Civil War.---In this play’s opening scene, two men berate a cobbler for taking a day oﬀ from work to attend a celebratory parade. A morally conﬂicted character in this play is devastated by the suicide of his wife, Portia. A soothsayer tells the title character of this play to “beware the Ides of March,” a warning that comes true when he is assassinated by Cassius and Brutus. For the point, name this William Shakespeare play about a Roman statesman.---Forces from a kingdom in this modern-day country defeated Michael III of Bulgaria to secure Epirus at the Battle of Velbazhd. An empire based in this country exploited a civil war between John V [the ﬁfth] Palailogos and Anna of Savoy to conquer Macedonia. The Austro-Hungarian Empire declared war against this home of Gavrilo Princip to spark World War I. For the point, name this country that reclaimed its historic capital of Belgrade after breaking away from Yugoslavia.---This President secured American control of land around Guantanamo Bay after withdrawing troops from Cuba. This President began codifying his foreign policy after denouncing an Anglo-German blockade of Venezuela. The Great White Fleet was tasked by this man to circumnavigate the world as a show of American power. For the point, name this President who described his foreign policy as “speak softly and carry a big stick.”---An army from this city executed a decisive cavalry charge after enemy archers left their posts to gather loot in the Battle of Uhud. Abu Sufyan ruled a tribe of merchants based in this city called the Quraysh. Abu Bakr and a close companion departed this city in the Hijra to ﬂee to neighboring Medina. This city was the starting point of the Night Journey. For the point, name this birthplace of Muhammad, the holiest city of Islam.---In a speech given in the aftermath of this event, a politician reinforced his Four Cardinal Principles and claimed that military intervention was justiﬁed. A ten meter tall paper-mache statue called the Goddess of Democracy was constructed during this event. In a picture from this event, a man with a bag in his hand refuses to move out of the way of encroaching tanks. For the point, name this 1989 event in which thousands of people protested in a Beijing square. Tienanmen Square protests (accept June 4th Movement; accept liusi shijian)---This man survived a cannonball through his ship cabin at the Battle of San Juan but died of dysentery days later. When this man landed in California, he declared the land as New Albion. This man’s other exploits include leading a raid on Cadiz, where he boasted of “singeing the beard of the King of Spain” after he was commissioned to ﬁght the Armada. For the point, name this privateer for Queen Elizabeth I, the ﬁrst Englishman to circumnavigate the globe.---At this city’s Riverside church, Martin Luther King delivered his “Beyond Vietnam” speech. David Miller became the ﬁrst person to burn his draft card while at a rally in this city against the Armed Forces Induction Center on Whitehall Street. Construction workers in this city carried out the Hard Hat Riot when they attacked students protesting the Kent State shootings who had gathered at Wall Street. For the point, name this city where the Vietnam War was protested in Times Square.---This man appeared before the Dies Committee in the US, accused of being in the pocket of oil magnates. In an article in Pravda, this man and his supporters were depicted as analogous to the German Gestapo, and he was the subject of a Moscow Show trial that sentenced him to death in 1936. Agents sponsored by his rival killed this man with an ice-axe while in exile in Mexico City. For the point, name this early communist revolutionary and ally of Lenin who was opposed by Stalin.---This general was decisively defeated at the battle of Celaya despite outnumbering enemy forces nearly 2 to 1. After being recognized by a pumpkin seed vendor in Parral, this man was assassinated by supporters of Alvaro Obregon. John Pershing led an expedition to capture this man. With his Division of the North, this man allied with Emiliano Zapata against the regime of Victoriano Huerta. For the point, name this Mexican revolutionary who raided Columbus, New Mexico in 1916.---This building is home to Emmanuel Leutze’s [loyt-zuh’s] painting Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way. A Constantino Brumidi “Apotheosis” decorates the oculus of a dome in this building, whose primary architect was William Thornton. John Quincy Adams was inaugurated in this structure’s Statutory Hall, which is home to the Car of History clock depicting Clio recording the proceedings of the House of Representatives. For the point, name this building whose chambers host Congress.---During one conﬂict in this country, Jacob Smith ordered his troops to “kill everyone over the age of ten.” The proclamation of the Malolos Constitution, which established this country’s First Republic, sparked a war with the United States that ended with the capture of Emilio Aguinaldo. George Dewey captured this modern-day country after defeating its Spanish defenders at an 1898 naval battle. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country, the site of the Battle of Manila Bay. Philippines---A general in this country seized power after assassinating William R. Tolbert and formed the People’s Redemption Council. In 2018, the President of this country, George Weah, reduced his salary by 25% to confront its broken economy. The Libyan-trained Charles Taylor overthrew Samuel Doe in this country, sparking a 1989 civil war. The American Colonization Society helped thousands of free blacks immigrate to what is now, for the point, what West African country with capital Monrovia?---This city was founded by Belloveso, a leader of the Insubri Celts, who legendarily saw a “half-woolen bear” that he then made the city’s symbol. Emperor Maximian ruled the Western Roman Empire from this city before moving the capital to Ravenna due to invading Visigoths. In 313 AD, Licinius and Constantine I met in this city to discuss Galerius” Edict of Toleration. For the point, name this city in Lombardy that names an edict that granted Christianity legal status in the Roman Empire.---The Welland Canal allows travelers to bypass this location. During the War of 1812, American forces withdrew to Fort Erie after being defeated at this location in the Battle of Lundy’s Lane. Nikola Tesla built a massive power plant at this location that transmitted power to Buﬀalo, twenty miles away.A 63-year-old schoolteacher named Annie Edson Taylor traveled through this location in 1901 in a barrel. The Maid of the Mist boat provides a tour of, for the point, what scenic gorge and waterfall on the New York-Canada border?---In one account, this man was apotheosized after being anointed by his mother and having the river god Numicus cleanse him of his mortal body. This man gives his companion and fellow royal, Sergestus, a Cretan slave girl name Pholoe during a funerary boat race. This prince is the son of Anchises [an-KYE-zeez] and the goddess Venus. For the point, name this Trojan prince, an ancestor of Romulus and Remus and the central ﬁgure of a namesake epic poem by Virgil.---This state’s Black Republicans merged with the Populists to create the Fusion Party. In 1871, the governor of this state, William Holden, was impeached for suppressing KKK activity. Democrats in this state led by Alfred Waddell attacked The Daily Record newspaper during the Wilmington insurrection of 1898, which disenfranchised blacks throughout this state in cities like Asheville and Greensboro. For the point, name this southern state where the Negro Voting League formed in Raleigh. North Carolina---This man used so-called “Lucanian oxen” at two important battles in a war named for him. To defend Syracuse from Carthage, this general besieged the port city of Lilybaeum. Taruntum called this Epirot to help defend against an expanding empire, leading to battles like Heraclea and Asculum. For the point, name this enemy of Rome whose namesake type of victory refers to a costly win on the battleﬁeld.---This country ceded territorial claims after being defeated by the British in the Duar War. In 1910, this country secured its independence by signing a treaty at Punakha Dzong. In 2003, mountaineering was banned in this country out of respect for spiritual customs, protecting Gangkhar Puensum as the tallest unclimbed mountain in the world. This country, whose government measures Gross National Happiness, is located between the Indian state of Sikkim and Tibet. For the point, name this South Asian country governed from Thimphu.---This modern-day country was once home to the Srivijaya kingdom, which was signiﬁcantly weakened after a series of raids from the nearby Chola Empire. From the 14th to the 16th centuries, the Majapahit Empire was the most dominant state in this country’s present-day territory. The temple of Borobudur was built in the territory of, for the point, what country where the Mataram Sultanate came under Islamic inﬂuence that had spread to Java from Sumatra?---During this period, the illiterate freeman Black Harry Hosier was nicknamed the “Great American Orator” by Benjamin Rush. This period sparked the creation of “camp meetings” including a massive one hosted in Cane Ridge, Kentucky. Charles Finney described a portion of western New York as the “burned-over district” due to its role in this period. The Seventh-day Adventists were established during, for the point, what early 19th century period of religious revival in the United States?---This person determined that the sum of the squared reciprocals of the natural numbers equaled pi squared over six. This person, who was given a job in Berlin by Frederick the Great, names a path in a graph that visits every edge. A staggeringly large number of mathematical theorems and concepts are named for the second person to discover them after this man. The Seven Bridges of Konigsberg problem was formulated by, for the point, what Swiss mathematician who names a number approximately equal to 2.718, the base of the natural logarithm.---In a ﬁlm from this country, based on Sara Waters” Fingersmith, a conman hires a pickpocket to become an heiress’s maid. A director from this country created a ﬁlm in which Curtis Everett starts a revolution against the Ed Harris-played Wilford. A 2003 ﬁlm from this country follows Oh Dae-su who seeks revenge after being mysteriously imprisoned for 15 years. The Handmaiden, Snowpiercer, and Oldboy are from, for the point, what Asian nation, home to directors like Park Chan-Wook? South Korea (prompt on Korea)---This man is credited with spreading the worship of the shamaness-turned-sea goddess Mazu across Asia. The Mao Kun map accurately depicts this man’s journey to cities on the Swahili Coast like Malindi and Mombasa. This man was gifted a giraﬀe by the Sultan of Bengal which he promptly brought back to the Yongle Emperor. For the point, name this Muslim eunuch, a 15th century Chinese admiral who led many treasure voyages for the Ming. Zheng He (accept Cheng Ho)---This kingdom’s rulers included the “Iron and Golden King,” Ottokar II. After the end of the Premyslid line, Charles IV rebuilt the Hradcany district surrounding a massive castle in this kingdom’s capital city. The king of Hungary and Croatia, Sigismund, forced a ruler of this kingdom, Wenceslaus IV, to abdicate as Holy Roman Emperor to expand his own inﬂuence. The Hussites and Jan Zizka were victorious at the Battle of Vitkov Hill on the edges of this kingdom’s capital, Prague. For the point, name this kingdom that dissolved to form the Czechoslovakian Republic in 1918.---This politician warned that the North would “move with the steady momentum and perseverance of a mighty avalanche” after being removed from oﬃce in 1861. This man, angry with his letters being ignored, beat William Stanberry with a cane. During one battle, this man ordered the destruction of Vince’s Bridge to trap his enemy in the Brazos River. This commander utilized two cannons called the Twin Sisters to win the Battle of San Jacinto. For the point, name this ﬁrst President of the Republic of Texas.---This man saved Rome from the Lombards even though the exarch of Ravenna from the Byzantine Empire claimed control over negotiations. In the Institutes, John Calvin called this man the “Last Good Pope.” This pope, who fought Arianism in the Visigothic Kingdom, successfully converted the Anglo-Saxons to Christianity. For the point, name this “Great” 6th century pope who, according to legend, invented a monophonic plain chant to be used in Catholic church music.---In 2017, Mauricio Macri revoked this man’s Order of the Liberator General San Martin award due to human rights abuses. This current chair of the Non-Aligned Movement funneled funds for food to his associates via his CLAP social program. This man was accused of ﬁxing a 2018 election, causing the National Assembly to declare his opponent, Juan Guaid´o, acting President. For the point, name this current President of Venezuela.---When a law forced this group to close their coﬀee shops, they revolted and placed their ruler in the Yedikule Fortress, where he died. After opposing the creation of the Nizam i-Cedid, members of this group were eventually imprisoned in the Tower of Blood. This group was dissolved by Mahmud II, who executed their members in the Auspicious Incident in favor of a modern military. Young Christian boys who were kidnapped at an early age formed, for the point, what elite Ottoman infantry corps?---This man composed The Sea of Blood, a revolutionary opera that is set during the Japanese occupation of his home nation. China tried to replace this leader with the pro-Chinese Yan’an in the August Faction incident. This leader, who is celebrated on the “Day of the Sun,” invaded the neighboring government of Shin Song-mo in 1950. For the point, name this founder of the Workers” Party of Korea who was succeeded by his son, Kim Jong-il.---This battle ended when Ian Hamilton was removed in favor of Charles Monro, who planned the subsequent evacuation. This battle turned with news of Bulgaria’s alliance with the winning side and the failure of an attack on Scimitar Hill. One side in this battle made a landing at ANZAC Cove but was thwarted by Mustafa Kemal in their attempt to take control of the Dardanelles Strait. For the point, name this failed Allied amphibious campaign against the Ottomans during World War I.---In a failed attempt to capture this man, Allan Pinkerton detonated an incendiary device that gravely wounded Zerelda Samuel. Thomas Crittenden, the governor of Missouri, immediately pardoned the man who killed this outlaw. During one event, this man failed to rob a bank in Northﬁeld, Minnesota, leading to the near-destruction of the gang he established with Cole Younger and his brother, Frank. For the point, name this American outlaw who was killed by Robert Ford.---This man proposed the International Clearing Union to regulate foreign exchange markets during the Bretton Woods Conference. This man gained fame for attacking the harsh reparations demanded of Germany through the Treaty of Versailles in his book The Economic Consequences of the Peace. The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money was written by, for the point, what man who names a school of economics that favors government spending during depressions?---In 1966, the leader of a modern country with this name met with Zhou Enlai while Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka and Joseph Arthur Ankrah led Operation Cold Chop, a coup d’etat. In the 11th century, Al-Bakri traveled to an empire with this name and described a king in Kumbi Saleh who owned all the gold nuggets in his realm. Kwame Nkrumah is known as the “Father of,” for the point, what West African country whose capital is Accra? Ghana---This party collapsed after only its second national election when a ticket of John Hale and George Washington Julian failed to capture even 5% of the popular vote. The Barnburners helped form this party after the Democratic Convention refused to endorse the Wilmot Proviso. This party failed to secure any electoral votes in the Election of 1848 despite running former President Martin van Buren. For the point, name this short-lived, single issue party that opposed the expansion of slavery. Free Soil Party---Harald Hardrada, a claimant of both the Danish and English thrones, spent 15 years in this city as an exile and mercenary captain. This city hosted Ivan’s Hundred, the ﬁrst Ruthenian Guild, which met near the Church of Ivan the Forerunner. A Slavic Republic named for this city was the easternmost member of the Hanseatic League. The oprichniki killed hundreds of people and dumped them in the Volkhov River in a 1570 massacre in this city. Alexander Nevsky led, for the point, what city of northern Russia known as “Veliky,” or “Great?”---A 1952 novel centered on this activity chronicles the attempted murder-suicide of Harriet Bird, based on the life of Eddie Waitkus. Franklin Pierce Adams wrote a poem about this activity’s “Sad Lexicon” that opens, “These are the saddest of possible words.” Roy Hobbs leads the ﬁctional New York Knights to a 17-game winning streak in this sport in Bernard Malamud’s novel The Natural. Ernest Thayer wrote a poem about this sport in which angry supporters of the Mudville Nine shout “Kill him! Kill the umpire!” For the point, name this sport, the focus of “Casey at the Bat.”---A statue of one of these people in Hunan characterizes his many blessings as his “thousand arms and thousand eyes.” Dizang, Puxian, and Wenshu are three of these people often grouped with Avalokiteshvara [ah-vah-loh-kee-tesh-vah-rah], who became known as Guanyin in China, and who symbolizes ultimate compassion. Another of these people, Vajrapani, legendarily guided Gautama Buddha in his journeys. For the point, name these ﬁgures from Buddhism who put oﬀ becoming Buddhas to act as guides for others wishing to achieve enlightenment.---This event prompted intervention by a naval squadron led by Thomas Larimore. The instigator of this rebellion may have been upset due to not being invited to join the fur trade of the Green Springs circle. After the initial leader of this event died of dysentery, he was replaced by John Ingram. Supporters of this revolt criticized William Berkeley for not properly responding to attacks by the Doeg people. Jamestown was burned during, for the point, what 1676 rebellion in colonial Virginia?---A member of this group named Perinnis met his downfall after the ruler was shown coins with Perinnis” face on it. Starting with Diocletian, this group was the army model for the much larger sacer comitatus. A leader of this group was mocked incessantly for having a squeaky voice by Caligula, who was then murdered by this group. Constantine I disbanded, for the point, what elite unit that usually served as bodyguards to the Roman emperor?---This character is told by a doctor to fake liver pain instead of appendicitis because its harder to diagnose. This soldier throws out the belongings of Lieutenant Mudd, who died on a mission but whose property the military refuses to sequester. In Closing Time, it is implied this man takes a deal from Colonels Cathcart and Korn to be promoted to major and then discharged. The idea that one cannot be sane and ﬂy missions - but that only an insane man would ﬂy a mission - is explained to, for the point, what protagonist of Joseph Heller’s Catch-22 ?---This man’s campaign against Purushanda is recounted in the epic King of Battle. The Gutian dynasty destroyed an empire founded by this man after descending from the Zagros mountains. This ruler combined East Semitic with cuneiform to create a standardized language for his empire. Belis-tikal attempted to kill this man on the orders of Ur-Zababa. This man’s reign, including his conquests of Umma and Lagash, is chronicled in the Nippur inscription. For the point, name this ancient king who established the Akkadian Empire.---In Egypt, Solon hears the story of this city, which was founded by the descendants of a Greek god and the mortal Cleito. Plato’s dialogues Timaeus and Critias describe how this city loses a great war against Athens. Along with the word “new,” this city titles a Utopian novel by Sir Francis Bacon. For the point, name this ﬁctional city that, in popular culture, is often depicted as an island or lost realm under the sea.---Darius Couch was so disgusted by his commanding oﬃcer’s behavior at this battle that he resigned his major general commission. Cadmus Wilcox forced the Battle of Salem Church to delay John Sedgwick’s forces from reinforcing one side in this battle. This battle started after forces under Joseph Hooker crossed the Rappahannock River to engage Robert E. Lee. Stonewall Jackson was wounded by friendly ﬁre during, for the point, what 1863 Confederate victory in Virginia?---An invasion of this country was temporarily halted by the Mannerheim Line. In this country, soldiers developed the “Molotov Cocktail” to destroy enemy tanks. A sniper from this country, Simo Hayha, was nicknamed “The White Death” by the Red Army. This country was forced to cede Karelia after losing the Winter War; it was invaded by the Soviet Union due to its proximity to Leningrad. For the point, name this country that was caught oﬀ guard by the sudden bombing of Helsinki. Finland---This sculpture’s concrete and granite pedestal was designed by architect Richard Morris Hunt. A controversy erupted in August 2019 when Kenneth Cuccinelli suggested adding the phrase “who can stand on their own two feet” to the poem “The New Colossus,” which was written for this sculpture. Gustave Eiﬀel built the frame of this sculpture, whose copper exterior was designed by Frederic Bartholdi. For the point, name this statue in New York City’s harbor. Statue of Liberty (accept Liberty Enlightening the World)---This country was the site of the Mareth Line, a “Maginot Line in the desert.” Poorly led US troops suﬀered a defeat in this country at the hands of the German Afrika Korps led by Erwin Rommel at the Kasserine Pass. This modern-day country is the site of the ancient Phoenician ruins of Utica and a city legendarily founded by Dido on the Mediterranean. For the point, name this north African country where the ruins of Carthage can be found between Libya and Algeria.---This dynasty secured a foothold in Central Asia after defeating the Xiongnu people at the Battle of Mobei. The Trung Sisters launched a failed revolt against this dynasty in Vietnam. The tyrant Dong Zhuo brieﬂy controlled this dynasty after deposing Emperor Shao. This dynasty employed He Jin to suppress the Yellow Turban Rebellion. Liu Bang and Wu Di ruled this dynasty centered on Chang’an. The Qin dynasty was succeeded by, for the point, what dynasty that lends its name to China’s largest ethnic group?---In William of Poitiers” recount of this battle, he notes the winning commander used a holy banner given to him by Pope Alexander II. Retreating forces from this battle were trapped in a ditch called the Malfosse. In the prelude to this battle, Harald Hardradawas killed at the Battle of Stamford Bridge. The Bayeux Tapestry shows Harold Godwinson being shot in the eye during this battle. William the Conqueror won, for the point, what 1066 battle that secured the Norman conquest of England?---In 1865, Andrew Johnson vetoed an act of this name which held that people born in the United States are citizens. Strom Thurmond gave a 24-hour long ﬁlibuster in opposition to an act with this name. Lyndon B. Johnson signed an act with this name into law which invoked the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to guarantee the right to vote. For the point, give this common name of several anti-discriminatory acts, often used to protect the freedom of African-Americans.---Prime Minister Louis Botha released a king of these people after he was jailed for supposedly perpetrating the Bambatha Rebellion. These people, who were defeated at the Battle of Blood River by [din-GAH-nay] led these people, 400 Voortrekkers, used the Buﬀalo Horns formation in battle. Dingane after killing his half-brother in 1828. For the point, name this southern African ethnic group whose empire was once led by Shaka. Zulu people---Japanese midget submarines sunk the Kuttabul in this city’s harbor during World War II. Today, this city’s Harbour Bridge can be climbed by tourists and is nicknamed “The Coathanger” because of its curved shape. Bondi Beach is in the eastern suburbs of this city. Jorn Utzon designed this city’s iconic opera house, which is known for its massive white sails. For the point, name this city in New South Wales that is the most populous city in Australia. Sydney---
Boston------Cossacks---Andrew Yang---Page 1 ---Lorenzo the Magniﬁcent (accept Lorenzo de Medici)---Andes Mountains---Seminole Nation---Genghis Khan (accept Temujin; accept Chinggis Khan)---Madame Butterﬂy (or Madama Butterﬂy)---Page 2 ---Winﬁeld Scott (prompt on Old Fuss and Feathers before it is read)---Gone with the Wind---the fall of Berlin (accept Battle of Berlin)---Sigmund Freud (or Sigismund Schlomo Freud)------prompt on “Republic of the Congo” alone) Page 3 ---William H. Seward---Pericles---Albany---railroad---Charles---Ernesto “Che” Page 4 ---Oliver Cromwell---Julius Caesar---Kingdom of Serbia---Theodore Roosevelt (accept Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on Roosevelt)---Mecca---Page 5 ---Sir Francis Drake---New York City (or NYC)---Leon Trotsky---Francisco “Pancho” Villa (accept Jose Doroteo Arango Arambula)---U.S. Capitol Building---Page 6 ---Republic of Liberia---Milan (accept Mediolanum)---Niagara Falls (accept Niagara River; accept Niagara Gorge)---Aeneas------Pyrrhus of Epirus Page 7 ---Kingdom of Bhutan---Indonesia---Second Great Awakening (prompt on Great Awakening)---Leonhard Euler [oy-ler]------Page 8 ---Bohemia (do not accept or prompt on Czechoslovakia, Czech Republic, etc.)---Sam Houston---Pope Gregory I (or Gregory the Great; accept Gregorian chant after “chant” is read; prompt on Gregory)---Nicolas Maduro---Janissaries (accept Janissary; prompt on descriptions of an Ottoman army, guard, etc. before “Ottoman” is read) Page 9 ---Kim Il-sung (prompt on partial answers)---Gallipoli campaign (or Battle of Gallipoli; accept Battle of Canakkale; accept Dardanelles campaign before it is read)---Jesse James---John Maynard Keynes [canes]------Page 10 ---Veliky Novgorod (do not accept or prompt on “Nizhny Novgorod”)---baseball---bodhisattva (do not accept or prompt on “buddha”)---Bacon’s Rebellion---Praetorian Guard Page 11 ---Captain John Yossarian (accept either underlined name)---Sargon I (accept Sargon the Great; prompt on Sargon)---Atlantis---Battle of Chancellorsville------Page 12 ---Tunisia---Han dynasty---Battle of Hastings---Civil Rights Act(s)---ama---Page 13---