C---True---75
This man was the chief lawyer to Attorney General John Mitchell when he was chosen to replace the retiring John Marshall Harlan II. While clerking for Robert Jackson, this man wrote that he thought “Plessy v. Ferguson was right.” This man, the ﬁrst member of the Supreme Court since 1954 to die in oﬃce, voted on cases like Lawrence v. Texas with Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas in a conservative bloc. Warren Burger was succeeded as Chief Justice by, for the point, what judge who was himself succeeded as Chief Justice by John Roberts in 2005?---The phrase “scientia potentia est,” or “science is power,” ﬁrst appeared in this work in a list of attributes that provide power. This work was supplemented by its author’s later De Cive and De Corpore. Misinterpretations of Scripture are cited as the cause of the “Kingdom of Darkness” in the last section of this work, which warns of the state of nature as a “war of all against all.” For the point, name this work that describes life as “nasty, brutish, and short,” a philosophical tract defending absolute monarchy written by Thomas Hobbes.---In 1910, White Rock Creek was dammed to create a reservoir for this city. A park in this city contains a concrete pergola named for its founder John Neely Bryan. The Leonhardt Lagoon and Hall of State are located in its Fair Park area. A “sixth ﬂoor museum” in this city commemorates an event in which a man hiding in a Book Depository ﬁred on a motorcade passing through this city’s Dealey Plaza. For the point, name this city where Lee Harvey Oswald assassinated John F. Kennedy in North Texas.---This man was imprisoned in Visegrad after asking Matthias Corvinus for military aid, though Corvinus later supported this man in reclaiming his throne against Basarab Laiota. A dispute arising from the jizya tax prompted this man to launch a “Night Attack” on Mehmed II. This man was overthrown by his Ottoman-backed brother Radu the Handsome. For the point, name this Wallachian voivode whose practice of putting enemies on wooden stakes helped inspire Bram Stoker’s Count Dracula.---A controversial statue of this man by Horatio Greenough shows him robed and seated like Zeus. Another work shows this man resting against the fasces with a plow behind him; that work is located in the Virginia State Capitol. James Monroe holds a ﬂag in a painting by Emmanuel Leutze that features this man leading troops towards Trenton in a boat across an icy river. For the point, name this man who appears, as depicted by Gilbert Stuart, on the American one-dollar bill. Washington---One cause of this event was a letter sent by Dr. Charles Cooper to a participant’s father-in-law that disparaged the other participant’s campaign for governor. It is believed that the victim of this event “deloped,” as he had recommended his son do in a similar situation three years earlier at the same place, Weehawken Heights in New Jersey. For the point, name this 1804 incident in which a sitting Vice President killed a former Secretary of the Treasury.---Captain Henry Ross designed a symbol for members of this profession. Peter Lalor led these workers, who had earlier been enticed by Thomas Hiscock to travel to Buninyong. The Ballarat Reform League represented these workers, who mobilized for combat on Bakery Hill and hoisted the Eureka ﬂag during a stockade rebellion. Melbourne turned into a major boom town thanks to these workers, who scrambled to reach the Fish River. For the point, name this profession which boomed during the Victorian Gold Rush.---This leader punished his bodyguards after a picture of him falling down from a podium was widely mocked on the internet in early 2015. In 2008, this leader’s British knighthood was revoked after he fraudulently won against the opposing Movement for Democratic Change Party led by Morgan Tsvangarai [chon-gee-rye]. This leader transitioned into using the US dollar after his country’s own currency inﬂated by 79 billion percent in November 2008. For the point, name this leader of the ZANU-PF Party and President of Zimbabwe.---D. Louis Abood’s refusal to join one of these organizations led to a lawsuit against the Detroit Board of Education. The Supreme Court ruled in Harris v. Quinn that these organizations are not allowed to collect fees from non-members, overturning a provision of the Taft-Hartley Act, even though non-members may still beneﬁt from collective bargaining done by these organizations. For the point, name these groups that promote better working conditions and higher wages by organizing workers.---In 2016, an insurance agent claiming to be a spokesperson for this team managed to meet with Sudanese president Omar Al-Bashir. Prior to a 11-1 defeat to their biggest rivals, players from this team were allegedly intimidated by police sympathetic to Francisco Franco. This team’s status as a nationalist symbol is reﬂected by its slogan “Mes que un club.” For the point, name this Spanish football team whose “El Clasico” rivalry with Real Madrid is seen as a metaphor for the struggle for Catalonian independence.---This country lost most of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon, but it regained some in the Vienna Awards. This country twice refused the rule of Charles IV, its last king, and instead was led through World War II by Admiral Mikl´os Horthy. A relaxed form of communism called Goulash communism developed in, for the point, what country whose 1956 revolution was led by Imre Nagy [nazh] but crushed by Soviet tanks rolling through Budapest?---This group of people lost the Battle of Telamon despite the participation of Gaesatae mercenaries. One leader of these people sieged Clusium, proceeded to win the Battle of the Allia, and then said “woe to the defeated!” while measuring a tribute payment. Another leader of these people won the Battle of Gergovia but was defeated in the siege of Alesia by Julius Caesar. Brennus and Vercingetorix were part of, for the point, what group of barbarians who lived primarily in modern-day France?---The Urabi Revolt was an attempt to liberate this country from European interests. This country was known as a khedivate after it was taken over by an Albanian ruler named Muhammad Ali. After the fall of the Ayyubids, soldier slaves known as Mamluks established a sultanate in this country that ruled until its 1517 defeat by the Ottoman Empire. The Free Oﬃcers Movement triggered a republican revolution in, for the point, what north African country where Gamal Abdel Nasser ruled from Cairo?---This character drowns his brother in a vat of wine after claiming that he is “determined to prove a villain.” This character hires James Tyrell to murder his nephews after working with Buckingham to spread rumors of their legitimacy. This king states that “now is the winter of our discontent made glorious by this sun of York” at the beginning of a play named for him. For the point, name this hunchbacked king who titles a Shakespeare history play and died at the Battle of Bosworth Field.---Warren Christopher negotiated the end of this event by unfreezing nearly $8 billion in assets. Eight Americans died when a helicopter and plane collided during Operation Eagle Claw, a failed attempt to end this event. This event’s end was timed to coincide with the inauguration ceremonies for Ronald Reagan, whose victory over Jimmy Carter was possibly clinched by Carter’s failure to end this event. For the point, name this crisis in which 52 Americans were captured and held for 444 days in Tehran.---In the 1920s, Padre Pio was investigated for showing signs of this phenomenon, which included a shoulder wound and a scent of perfume. This phenomenon can include back scars and forehead bleeding. A six-winged seraph visited the ﬁrst person to experience this phenomenon, St. Francis of Assisi, who had ﬂeshy, nail-like protrusions in his hands. For the point, name this religious phenomenon in which Catholics show wounds on their hands and feet that recall Jesus’s cruciﬁxion. stigmata (accept word forms like stigmatics; accept transverberation or word forms until---This man once refused to believe reports of a Bulgarian massacre and dispatched Lord Roberts to put down an uprising in Afghanistan. This man, who held his ﬁrst oﬃce during the “Who? Who?” ministry, checked Russian expansion at the Congress of Berlin and purchased the Suez Canal. During his time as Prime Minister, he made his friend, Queen Victoria, the Empress of India. For the point, name this Conservative politician, a rival of William Gladstone in 19th century England.---This colony’s independence movement was sparked by the S´etif Massacre, and its independence war started on Red All Saints’ Day. Both pro- and anti-independence ﬁgures in this colony’s European ruler were targeted by bombings in the Caf´e Wars. The ﬂight of the pied-noirs [peed-nwar], Europeans residing in this colony, was accelerated by the Oran Massacre, which began on the day that its independence was established through the 1962 Evian Accords. The FLN fought for independence in, for the point, what French colony in North Africa?---This man’s Opus 40 no. 1, a work in A major, was played daily over the radio by one country in World War II and is nicknamed “Military.” This man borrowed a form invented by Irish pianist John Field for many of his pieces, and commemorated his native land’s November Uprising with the Revolutionary ´ Etude. For the point, name this Polish-born Romantic pianist, known for composing many nocturnes, mazurkas, and polonaises.---England garrisoned troops in three of this country’s “Cautionary Towns,” including Brielle [breel]. Siege warfare was revolutionised by a general from this country, the stadtholder Maurice of Nassau. This country gained its independence from Spain in the Eighty Years’ War and was succeeded by the Batavian Republic. The House of Orange ruled, for the point, what European country that was later known as Holland and is currently governed from Amsterdam?---When asked if he felt any remorse, the planner of this event asked “was Christ not cruciﬁed?” A vision of blood on cornstalks preceded this event, whose beginning was signaled by a solar eclipse. The planner of this event was stopped before he could reach Jerusalem in Southampton County, but not before a few dozen whites were killed. It became unlawful for slaves to read or write in some states after, for the point, what 1831 Virginia slave revolt? Turner’s Rebellion (accept equivalents for rebellion; prompt on Southampton rebellion,---A member of this family wrote the book Countercoup about his role in the 1953 Iranian coup. Two members of this family journeyed down the “River of Doubt” in South America in the 1910’s. A member of this family proclaimed “we stand at Armageddon and we battle for the Lord” when accepting the nomination of the Progressive, or Bull Moose, Party. That member of this family promised the “Square Deal” for his presidency and gave the foreign policy advice of “speak softly and carry a big stick.” For the point, name this American family that includes a President nicknamed “Teddy.”---In this empire, nobles were assigned ranks of “zat” and “sawar,” based on the military forces they maintained, within the mansabdari system. One of this empire’s rulers established the Din-i Ilahi religion and founded the Ibadat Khana, or House of Worship, as a place for religious dialogue. Another ruler of this empire was married to Mumtaz and built her an elaborate mausoleum. Babur founded this empire, which reached its height under Akbar the Great. For the point, name this Muslim empire that constructed the Taj Mahal.---In 1962, Neil Bartlett bonded one of these things with platinum hexaﬂuoride. For discovering some of these things, Lord Rayleigh and William Ramsay won the 1904 Nobel Prizes in Physics and Chemistry. Archaeologists working with specimens older than 100,000 years study the decay of potassium into one of these elements in a common form of radioactive dating. For the point, name this group of elements whose full valence shells make them highly unreactive, a group that includes krypton, argon, and neon.---In the 17th century, this city suﬀered Salt and Copper Riots over taxes and currency debasement. A ruler of this city won the Battle of Kulikovo to free his people from the Tatars. Women helped build defenses to prevent Operation Typhoon, a German invasion of this city, while a French oﬀensive ended with the burning of this city after the Battle of Borodino. In 1812, a retreating Napoleon ordered the demolition of the Kremlin in, for the point, what capital of Russia?---This event is described in Gordon Prange’s At Dawn We Slept. Secretary of State Cordell Hull angrily yelled at foreign diplomats after hearing about this event. The codephrase “Tora! Tora! Tora!” indicated that this event was a total surprise to its victims, who are remembered at the USS Arizona memorial. Its date was labeled “a date which will live in infamy” by Franklin Roosevelt. For the point, what December 7, 1941 event was a sneak attack by the Japanese on a U.S. naval base?---A colonial oﬃcer called Francis Dhanis from this country struggled to put down the Batetela Rebellion. This country’s capture of Tobora in World War I gave it control of the Tanganyika Railway. The Casement Report protested human rights abuses in one of this country’s colonies, which was terrorized by a police force known as the Force Publique; in that colony, hands of native workers were cut oﬀ if they did not meet rubber quotas. For the point, name this colonial power that, under Leopold II, committed many atrocities in its colony of the Congo Free State.---After Black Friday, William “Tonnage” Tunner revitalized the eﬀort to supply this city, the home of Tempelhof Airport. This city’s “ghost stations,” or abandoned train stops, appeared after Erich Honecker built a structure with a “death strip” on one side. Gail Halvorsen dropped chocolate on this city during a 1948-49 airlift that skirted a Soviet blockade. For the point, name this European city that was divided into West and East halves by a wall that fell in 1989.---Prior to this battle, John Mercer’s Virginians and Lauzun’s Legion repulsed a foraging party led by Banastre Tarleton. One side in this battle was forced to retreat to Gloucester Point in this battle after their supply line was cut. Ground operations during this battle were overseen by the Comte de Rochambeau and George Washington, and included Alexander Hamilton’s charge on Redoubt 10. For the point, name this 1781 defeat for Charles Cornwallis that led to the end of the Revolutionary War.---The U.S. 3rd Infantry Division became known as the “Rock of [this river]” after Joseph Dickman signaled to his allies that “We will remain here.” At this river, Karl von Einem failed to breach the defenses of Ferdinand Foch [fosh], who was then elevated to the rank of Marshal. A battle here culminated in one side’s retreat to the Aisne [en] River and the end of the Schlieﬀen Plan. Taxicabs rushed reinforcements to, for the point, what French river to prevent a German takeover of Paris in World War I?---This song was quoted at the end of Al Gore’s Presidential concession speech in 2000. In its modern form, this song replaces the word “halcyon” from the ﬁrst line of Katharine Lee Bates’ original poem with the word “spacious,” and describes not an “enameled plain,” but a “fruited plain.” Bates’ trip to Pikes Peak inspired this song, whose ﬁrst stanza ends with the call to “crown thy good with brotherhood/From sea to shining sea.” For the point, name this patriotic song that describes the “spacious skies” and “amber waves of grain” of the United States. America the Beautiful (do not accept or prompt on America alone)---In this country, members of the rock band Plastic People of the Universe were arrested for disturbing the peace, inspiring the writing of Charter 77. A 2,000-word manifesto written by Ludvik Vaculik supported a progressive movement that began in this country in January 1968 with the rise of Alexander Dub˘cek [doob-check], who promoted “socialism with a human face” against the wishes of the Soviets. For the point, name this European country that underwent the 1968 Prague Spring and dissolved into two countries in 1993.---A plaster cast of this ﬁgure by Salvador Dali includes drawers and pom-poms. A Neolithic ﬁgurine found in Austria was known as this goddess of Willendorf. A painting of this goddess shows two winged ﬁgures blowing pink ﬂowers towards her as she stands on a giant scallop shell. Sandro Botticelli painted the birth of this goddess from sea foam. In 1820, an armless statue of this goddess was found on Milos. For the point, identify this popular subject of art, a Greco-Roman goddess of love.---Innis and Mackintosh theorized that this country’s economic development was driven by the export of “staples” like ﬁsh and wheat. A gold rush in this country spurred the development of Dawson City. This country planned, but did not carry out, a project to detonate nuclear bombs underneath the Athabasca River to boil its oil sands. For the point, name this country, whose economy has been historically bolstered by natural resources, as during the Yukon gold rush.---Description acceptable. In 2015, Harvard cosmologist Lisa Randall proposed that a disk of dark matter caused this event. Princeton geologists have suggested that this event was instead caused by sulfuric gases released from the Deccan Traps. In 1980, Luis Alvarez and his team studied the K-Pg boundary at Chicxulub [chick-shoo-loob] in the Yucatan Peninsula and proposed that this event was caused by a massive comet or asteroid impact. For the point, name this event that oﬃcially ended the Cretaceous Period and killed oﬀ numerous species, including Tyrannosaurus Rex.---Thomas Hankins argued that this movement’s only scientists were Condorcet and d’Alembert, giving them more credit for its successes. This movement was fostered by a vague community of scholars that called themselves the “Republic of Letters.” Coﬀeehouses rose to prominence as a place to exchange ideas during this movement. Denis Diderot’s Encyclop´edie argued for the secularization of education during, for the point, what European intellectual movement that promoted reason and individualism? Enlightenment---A company in this industry printed the legendary T206 Honus Wagner baseball card. Starting on January 2, 1971, this industry was banned from advertising on radio and television. In the 1980s, this industry lobbied against labeling laws that announce the presence of carbon monoxide or the potential risk of lung cancer. For the point, name this industry whose ads now feature Surgeon General’s Warnings and that once advertised using mascots like Joe Camel and the Marlboro Man.---The scherzo of this composer’s fourth symphony features strings playing pizzicato, and he used three Ukrainian folk songs in his second symphony, nicknamed “Little Russian.” Some scholars think he was forced to commit suicide by a “court of honor,” dying nine days after the premiere of his sixth symphony. To commemorate the Battle of Borodino, this composer wrote an overture that quoted “God Save The Tsar” and “La Marseillaise” [mar-sigh-yez]. For the point, name this composer of the Pathetique Symphony who included cannon ﬁre in his 1812 Overture.---The victors of this battle were the ﬁrst men not to ﬂinch at the dress of the Medes. Arimnestos led an allied contingent of Plataean soldiers to this battle, though the Carneia festival delayed the Spartans from joining it. Miltiades led Athenian forces to victory in this battle, driving back the forces of Darius I. For the point, name this 490 BC victory of Greek forces over Persia, which was legendarily announced to Athens after a 26.2 mile run.---This man’s appearance on Laugh-In was the subject of the ﬁrst top prize on Who Wants to be A Millionaire?. In Futurama, this man’s head ran for president of Earth. Forrest Gump met this president after participating in ping-pong diplomacy, and in a 2008 movie, this man said “When the President does it, that means it’s not illegal.” during an interview with David Frost. For the point, name this president whose ﬁctionalized undoing came after putting Forrest Gump up in the Watergate Hotel.---This ﬁgure was once baited out by the head of a large ox, an event depicted in the Gosforth Cross. One of the few surviving non-Christian runestones, Altuna, recounts how Hymir narrowly escaped death at the hands of this creature after taking a ﬁshing trip too far out into the ocean. Like Fenrir and Hel, this creature was fathered by Angrboda and Loki. It will be slain by Thor at Ragnarok, but not before mortally poisoning Thor with its venom. For the point, identify this lengthy Norse monster that encircles the earthly realm for which it is named. J¨ormungandr (or the Midgard Serpent or the World Serpent)---The power to appoint members to this institution was transferred by the Ovinian Plebiscite. This institution could not meet more than a mile outside of the pomerium. This body’s ultimate decree transferred all power to the executive, ending the ability to announce a dictator. Elected magistrates like aediles and praetors were automatically appointed after their terms to, for the point, what political body, the seat of many patricians in the Roman Republic?---A city on this body of water was led by Stepan Shahumyan’s 26 Commissars. Operation Barbarossa sought to control a line from this body of water north to Arkhangelsk, the “A-A line.” This body of water was ﬁrst mapped by Fedor Soimonov during the reign of Peter the Great. The Absheron peninsula on this body of water is an oil hotspot. Astrakhan and Baku are situated on, for the point, what body of water east of the Caucasus mountains, the largest enclosed inland body of water on Earth?---This man sent Lorenzo Thomas to deliver a dismissal notice to one of his subordinates, who had barricaded himself in his oﬃce. A Republican said, “I almost literally looked into my open grave” before casting the deciding vote in favor of this man at a trial presided over by Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase. Edmund Ross’s vote prevented a guilty verdict for this man, who may have violated the Tenure of Oﬃce Act by ﬁring his Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton. For the point, name this U.S. president, the ﬁrst to undergo an impeachment trial.---During this empire’s collapse, it abandoned its capital for Harran, then ﬂed to Carchemish [kar-keh-mish]. Tilgath-Pileser I expanded this empire to the Mediterranean Sea, and Sennacherib tried to conquer the Babylonians to this empire’s south. This upper Mesopotamian empire, nestled between Babylonia and the Hittites in the Tigris River basin, crumbled after the death of Ashurbanipal. For the point, name this ancient Middle Eastern empire that was centered on the city of Nineveh.---This ruler empowered Llywelyn the Great in Wales by giving him his daughter in marriage. Though he settled his claims to French land in the Treaty of Le Goulet, this ruler lost control of Normandy [boo-veen]. Innocent III excommunicated this ruler after he refused to following the Battle of Bouvines accept Stephen Langton as the Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1215, this brother of Richard I was cornered at Runnymede and forced to concede numerous rights to his barons. For the point, name this English king who signed the Magna Carta. John Lackland (accept John I)---A co-founder of this company later set up the Florida East Coast Railway and was known as the “Father of Miami.” In addition to Cleveland-based Henry Flagler, the chemist Samuel Andrews was another co-founder of this company. For McClure’s magazine, Ida Tarbell wrote a 19-part “muckraking” history of this company. After the Supreme Court ruled that this company was a monopoly in 1911, it broke into many other companies, two of which became Exxon and Mobil. John D. Rockefeller founded, for the point, what massive oil company?---Ambiguity over an international boundary near this river’s headwaters led to the proclamation of the unrecognized Indian Stream Republic in 1832. The Windsor Locks were built to allow ships to pass the Enﬁeld Falls on this river, whose mouth was home to the short-lived Saybrook Colony. It passes through the Pioneer Valley in Massachusetts and forms the border between Vermont and New Hampshire. For the point, name this longest New England river, which ﬂows past its namesake state’s capital at Hartford.---One character in this novel crosses out the names of those who live in his realm from the Book of Life and Death. That character from this novel steals peaches of immortality and receives an 8.1 ton staﬀ that can be shrunk down to the size of a needle from the Dragon King of the Eastern Sea. A monk in this novel travels to Vulture Peak with Sandy, Pigsy, and a character who was trapped under a mountain for 500 years. This novel ﬁctionalizes Xuanzang’s journey to obtain Buddhist scriptures from India. For the point, name this Chinese classical novel that features the monkey king, Sun Wukong.---During this event, a period of hysteria known as the Irish Night was ended with the return of the king. Henry Sydney, on behalf of the “Immortal Seven,” wrote an invitation letter seeking this event. The Declaration of Indulgence and the repeal of the Test Acts, measures to achieve religious toleration, helped cause this event. In response to this event, Jacobites rebelled numerous times in support of the deposed James II. For the point, name this 1688 event in which William and Mary ascended to the English throne in a remarkably peaceful manner.---Pope John XXIII [23] tried to mediate this event by asking one side to “not remain deaf to the cry of humanity.” This event was prompted when the results of Operation Anadyr were photographed by U-2 spy planes. An agreement that Jupiter MRBMs would be removed from Turkey helped end this event, which led to the establishment of a hotline between Moscow and Washington D.C. to mediate further disputes. For the point, name this Cold War scare in which weapons were discovered in Fidel Castro’s country. Cuban Missile Crisis (accept descriptive equivalents; prompt on partial answers)---This man won a battle at Vargas Swamp thanks to a bayonet charge led by James Rooke, whose forces this man described as “saviors of my country.” Those British Legions also helped this man win the Battle of Carabobo. He won the Battle of Boyac´a while his lieutenant, Antonio Jos´e de Sucre, won the Battle of Pichincha. He held the Guayaquil conference with Jos´e de San Mart´ın and became president of Gran Colombia. For the point, name this revolutionary who freed much of South America from Spain, often known as the Liberator.---This thinker wrote a pamphlet with Gene Weltﬁsh, beginning “The world is shrinking,” to send to Allied troops during World War II. The Anatomy of Dependence was written as a response to one of this author’s works, which characterized a certain group as both “insolent and polite.” This author’s deﬁnition of culture as “personality-writ-large” was included in her Patterns of Culture, and she followed up on that work by contrasting the “shame” and “guilt” cultures of the United States and Japan. For the point, name this Columbia anthropologist, student of Franz Boas, and author of The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.---In this year, the government of Francois Guizot was overthrown after he prohibited the Banquet Campaign. In this year, a Hungarian uprising was led by Lajos Kossuth [lye-osh ko-shuth]. An Austrian peasant revolt caused the resignation of Metternich in this year, and Louis Phillipe was exiled after the Second French Republic was established in this year. For the point, name this turbulent year of European revolutions in the 19th century.---This state’s Colony for Epileptics and the Feeble Minded forcibly sterilized Carrie Buck after the U.S. Supreme Court approved of negative eugenics in an 8-1 ruling in Buck v. Bell. In 1959, this state expelled Mildred and Richard Loving after they pled guilty to miscegenation; the ACLU took their case to the Supreme Court, which ruled in Loving vs. [this state] that interracial marriage is legal. For the point, name this U.S. state whose Supreme Court meets in Richmond.---In the aftermath of this event, John Mitchell and Philip Wigle were the only people convicted of treason, and both were pardoned. During this event, a six-striped independence ﬂag was ﬂown at Braddock’s Field. The militant Mingo Creek Association pressured residents into violence during this event, which included an attack on Bower Hill, the home of John Neville, a tax inspector. “Lighthorse Harry” Lee led a federal militia through Western Pennsylvania to put down, for the point, what 1791-1794 insurrection against an unpopular tax on distilled alcohol?---This leader was criticized for inviting anti-gay Muslim cleric Shady Alsuleiman to an Iftar dinner. Bob Katter pledged to support this leader if his coalition did not receive a majority of the seats in parliament. This leader rose to power after defeating Tony Abbott in his party’s leadership contest, and was re-elected in July 2016, defeating the Labour Party’s Bill Shorten. For the point, name this current Liberal Prime Minister of Australia.---One step in this process was achieved after the November Constitution violated the London Protocol. The Battles of Koniggratz and Sedan were decisive in this process, which included the capture of Schleswig-Holstein and Alsace-Lorraine. Realpolitik to achieve this process was advocated by this process’s main proponent, and this process was ﬁnalized after the Franco-Prussian War. For the point, name this process advocated by Otto von Bismarck, which formed a new country led by Wilhelm I from Berlin.---The defeated side of this conﬂict aﬃrmed a commitment to “no peace, no negotiations, and no recognition” in the Khartoum Resolution. This war began with Operation Focus, a preemptive strike that destroyed much of one side’s air force. Under the leadership of Moshe Dayan, the Golan Heights and Gaza Strip were quickly seized by the winners of this conﬂict. Gamal Abdel Nasser closure of the Straits of Tiran triggered, for the point, what 1967 war between Israel and an Arab alliance that was over within a week?---According to legend, correspondence written by this man to his opposing general relieved his enemy’s migraine headache. This man wrote “I have determined to avoid the useless sacriﬁce” in General Order No. 9, a document drafted at the home of Wilmer McLean. After the fall of Petersburg, this leader of the Army of Northern Virginia retreated from Richmond but was surrounded by cavalry a week later near Appomattox Court House. For the point, name this Confederate general who surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant, eﬀectively ending the U.S. Civil War.---A newspaper editor in this state, William Allen White, attacked the Populists in an article wondering “what’s the matter with” this state. Quantrill’s Raiders burned a city in this state in 1863, and ﬁve settlers were killed by John Brown here in the Pottawatomie massacre. The Lecompton Constitution would have allowed slavery in this state, which was the site of a conﬂict featuring many “border ruﬃans.” For the point, what future Plains state was labeled “bleeding” prior to the Civil War? Kansas---During this treaty’s negotiations, Sergei Witte threatened to end the ceaseﬁre if the other side refused to drop their reparation claims and accept Sakhalin Island in return. After this treaty was brokered, its mediator earned a Nobel Peace Prize, the ﬁrst U.S. President to earn one. This treaty ended a war that included two battles of Port Arthur in Manchuria. Teddy Roosevelt helped ensure the signing of, for the point, what 1905 treaty that ended the Russo-Japanese War?---An island in this state, which remains car-free to this day, was the headquarters of John Jacob Astor’s American Fur Company. Native copper was found at the Cliﬀ mine in this state, located on the Keewenaw Peninsula. A portion of this state was given to it as a consolation for losing the Toledo Strip to its southern neighbor; that portion is separated from the rest of this state by the Straits of Mackinac [mack-in-aw]. The Upper Peninsula is part of, for the point, what state whose mitten-shaped Lower Peninsula is north of Ohio?---This leader launched an ambitious set of economic and political goals known as the 2023 vision. The Pelican Files were leaked in April 2016, detailing political feuds between this leader and his Prime Minister. Boris Johnson wrote a poem about this leader engaging in carnal activities with a goat. This leader has demanded Fethullah Gulen be extradited from the United States, due to alleged involvement in a July 2016 coup attempt by the Peace at Home Council. For the point, name this current President of Turkey.---One of these pieces by Joseph Haydn, sometimes nicknamed for its prominent timpani part and written while Austria was battling Napoleon, was subtitled “In Time of War.” Another of these compositions supposedly dissuaded the Council of Trent from banning polyphony and was written by Giovanni Palestrina for Pope Marcellus. The ﬁnal movement of these pieces is usually the “Agnus Dei,” and it opens with a Kyrie [keer-ee-ay]. For the point, give this term for the musical setting of the Catholic liturgy.---One ruler of this kingdom died at the wedding of his daughter to a king of Epirus. Many of its aristocracy took Persian wives during the Susa weddings. This kingdom solidiﬁed control over an enemy with its victory at Chaeronea, after which it formed the League of Corinth. Its most famous king cut the Gordian knot and inherited the companion cavalry of his father, Philip II, which he used to conquer the Persian empire. For the point, name this ancient kingdom ruled by Alexander the Great.---The pro-life group Feminists for Life argues that this woman would have been a modern pro-life activist, based on her use of the phrase “unborn little ones” in her writings. Carrie Chapman Catt succeeded this activist as President of NAWSA. In 1872, this friend of Elizabeth Cady Stanton was arrested in Rochester, New York and ﬁned $100 for voting. For the point, name this early American suﬀragette who was honored in 1979 with an appearance on a dollar coin, the ﬁrst American woman to be so honored.---This island was invaded by the Great Heathen Army and Ivar the Boneless after his father Ragnar was executed by a king of Northumbria. The Doom book was a law code compiled on this island. Canute the Great conquered this island, where the Danelaw was dominated by the Norse. Alfred the Great ruled Wessex on, for the point, what island settled by the Anglo-Saxons that is home to the modern countries of Wales, Scotland, and England?---A ruler of this country was captured during the Kalabalik of Bender by the Ottoman Empire, where he was hiding in exile. This country faced Augustus the Strong’s coalition of Saxony and Poland-Lithuania, which wanted to claim Livonia from Charles XII. This country’s forces were defeated decisively at Poltava by the newly modernized military of Peter the Great. For the point, name this Scandinavian country that challenged Russia in the Great Northern War.---This actor portrayed the medic Andrew Ilario in Courage Under Fire, a role for which he lost 40 pounds. This actor also played Francois Pienaar, a rugby captain, in post-apartheid South Africa in Invictus. In a role based on the story of the Niland brothers, this actor’s character is sought by Tom Hanks’ character after all his brothers died shortly after D-Day. For the point, name this actor who played the title character of Saving Private Ryan and stars as Jason Bourne.---This scientist proposed that applying electricity to the brains of students during school would improve their intelligence. Onlookers accused this man of using a monkey inside of a radio-controlled boat that he demonstrated at Madison Square Garden. The SI unit for magnetic ﬂux density is named for this physicist, and a resonant transformer capable of producing high voltage at low currents is called his namesake “coil.” For the point, name this Serbian-American physicist who feuded over the use of direct or alternating current with Thomas Edison. Tesla---The system of tribute called the parias was hugely proﬁtable during this period. The capture of Faro ended one phase of this conﬂict, and a coalition defeated Muhammad al-Nasir during another phase. The taifa were independent states during this period after the breakup of the Caliphate of Cordoba. This period ended after the surrender of Muhammad XII. El Cid was a prominent general during, for the point, what conﬂict that was completed by Ferdinand and Isabella with a ﬁnal victory at Granada over the Moors?---The atrium of one of these locations was known as “The Flower” to its creator and is located behind Jeﬀ Koons’ Puppy. Another of these locations, which was originally known as the Museum of Non-Objective Painting, was designed in an inverted ziggurat shape and features an internal spiral ramp. A mining fortune supported the philanthropy that established these locations, whose designers include Frank Gehry and Frank Lloyd Wright. For the point, name this series of art museums with locations in Bilbao and New York City.---This leader was accused of election fraud, but only charged with misuse of state resources in the Raj Narain case. This leader’s son, Sanjay, carried out a program of abducting and sterilizing men during the “Emergency.” After launching a raid on the Golden Temple in Amritsar, this leader was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards. For the point, name this daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru and former Prime Minister of India.---Thomas Dixon wrote a Historical Romance of this group in which Ben Cameron orders the murder of the rapist Gus. By the 1920s, over one-quarter of the population of Indiana was enrolled in this organization. William Simmons led a 1915 revival of this group at Georgia’s Stone Mountain, where a cross was burned, as inspired by D.W. Griﬃth’s The Birth of a Nation. Nathan Bedford Forrest was the ﬁrst Grand Wizard of, for the point, what white supremacist group whose members wear white hoods?---
William Rehnquist---Leviathan or The Matter, Forme, and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil---Dallas---Vlad the Impaler (or Vlad III or Vlad Tepes or Vlad Dracula; prompt on Vlad; do not prompt on Dracula alone)---George Page 1 ---the duel between Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr (accept names in either order, and any description that includes all three aspects; prompt on partial answers)---Australian gold miners (prompt on Australians)---Robert Mugabe---labor unions (or trade unions, etc.; accept educational unions; accept descriptions of medical unions after “Harris” is read)---FC Barcelona (or Barca) Page 2 ---Hungary---Gauls (prompt on Celts)---Egypt---Richard III (prompt on Richard; prompt on Duke of Gloucester)---Iranian hostage crisis (accept descriptive answers that describe American hostages being Iran; prompt on partial answers) captured, held, and/or released in---“shoulder” is read) Page 3 ---Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsﬁeld (accept either)---French Algeria (prompt on (French) North Africa before said)---Fr´ed´eric Franc¸ois Chopin (or Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin)---Republic of the Seven United Netherlands (or the Netherlands; accept Dutch Republic; accept Republic of the Seven United Provinces)---Nat etc. before mentioned) Page 4 ---Roosevelt (accept Kermit and/or Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt)---Mughal Empire---noble gases (or inert gases; accept Group 18 of the periodic table; prompt on gas before “full valence shells” is read; prompt on element before said)---Moscow or Moskva---attack on Pearl Harbor (or equivalents) Page 5 ---Belgium---Berlin---Battle of Yorktown---Marne River (accept First and/or Second Battle of the Marne)---Page 6 ---Czechoslovakia (do not accept Czech Republic or Slovakia)---Venus (or Aphrodite; accept Venus with Drawers and Pompoms; accept Venus of Willendorf ; accept Birth of Venus; accept Venus de Milo or Aphrodite of Milo(s))---Canada---the extinction of dinosaurs (accept equivalent descriptions, like end of the dinosaurs; accept descriptions of the K-T (Cretaceous-Tertiary) extinction event or the K-Pg (Cretaceous- extinction event before “K-Pg” is said; accept descriptions of the Cretaceous extinction Paleogene) before “Cretaceous” is said; accept additionally provided information, such as the meteor that killed the dinosaurs)---Age of Page 7 ---tobacco industry (accept descriptions of cigarettes, chewing tobacco, and other forms of tobacco; do not accept descriptions of electronic cigarettes)---Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky---Battle of Marathon---Richard Nixon---Page 8 ---Roman Senate (accept Senate after “Roman” is said; prompt on Senate until then)---Caspian Sea---Andrew Johnson (prompt on Johnson)---Assyrian Empire (accept Old, Middle, or Neo Assyria; do not accept or prompt on Syria)---Page 9 ---Standard Oil Company, Incorporated---Connecticut River---Journey to the West (or Xi You Ji; prompt on Monkey)---Glorious Revolution (accept Bloodless Revolution; accept Revolution of 1688 until mentioned; prompt on descriptive answers, like “William and Mary taking the throne”)---Page 10 ---Sim´on Jos´e Antonio de la Sant´ısima Trinidad Bol´ıvar y Palacios---Ruth Benedict---1848---Virginia (accept Loving v. Virginia after “Mildred” is read)---Whiskey Rebellion (or synonyms for rebellion) Page 11 ---Malcolm Turnbull---German uniﬁcation (accept equivalents for uniﬁcation, do not accept or prompt on reuniﬁcation)---Six Day War---Robert (Edward) Lee---Page 12 ---Treaty of Portsmouth---Michigan---Recep Tayyip Erdogan---masses---Kingdom of Macedonia Page 13 ---Susan B. Anthony---Great Britain (do not accept or prompt any other answers)---Sweden---Matt Damon---Nikola Page 14 ---Reconquista (or Reconquest; accept descriptions of Christians expelling Muslims from Spain, prompting on partial answers)---Guggenheim Museums (accept Guggenheim Bilbao throughout; accept Guggenheim New York after “Non-Objective” is said; prompt on (art) museums; prompt on museums in (Bilbao) Spain before “Non-Objective” is said)---Indira Gandhi---Ku Klux Klan (or KKK) Page 15---