C---False---78
Three of this civilization’s most powerful women - Lady Xoc [Shok], Lady Sak ‘uk, and Lady Kan Ik - were related to the longest-ruling king of Palenque [puh-LEN-kay], Pacal the Great. This civilization’s religion involved sacriﬁces of food, animals, and humans to multiple gods, including Ixchel [ee-SHELL], Itzamna, and the Moon Goddess. Women traditionally wore the huipil [WEE-peel] in, for the point, what Mesoamerican civilization known for its calendar?---Trees of this resource sacred to Poseidon known as Moria were found throughout Attica. Thales, one of the Seven Wise Men of Greece, created what may have been the world’s ﬁrst monopoly by hoarding T presses to process this fruit. Legend has it that the Athenians chose Athena to be their patron after she gave them a tree that produced this natural resource. For the point, name this Mediterranean fruit used to make a namesake oil.---This ruler’s troops attempted to stay in Siberia after coalition forces left during the Russian Civil War in a failed attempt to create a Far East buﬀer state. This ruler’s cabinet received and promptly ignored F the Hull Note suggesting they withdraw forces from French Indochina and China. This ruler surrendered during the Jewel Voice Broadcast following the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. For the point, name this Japanese Emperor throughout World War Two.---This ongoing work began at seven papers on October 2, 1950, including its creator’s hometown paper, the Minneapolis Tribune. Over almost 50 years of syndication and nearly 18 thousand strips, this creation was a bastion of inclusiveness with characters including a fully-accepted African-American student named A Franklin and a conﬁdent, athletic girl named Patty. For the point, name this creation of Charles Schulz featuring Charlie Brown and his dog, Snoopy.---This monarch sent Qasim Khan to oust the Jesuits in 1631 due to Portuguese smuggling on the Hooghly River. Aurangzeb placed this man, his father, under house arrest in Agra after declaring him incompetent and incapable of ruling. This man’s chief consort, Mumtaz, died while he was on a military campaign in the Deccan Plateau. For the point, name this Shah of the Mughal Empire who built the Taj R Mahal for his wife. Jahan---Nazi collaborators in this nation known as the Arajs [uh-RAZH] Kommando committed the second largest massacre of World War Two in the Rumbula Forest. Lothar Rendulic led the isolated Army Group Courland that held out in this nation until Germany’s surrender in 1945. Along with its northern and southern neighbors, this country participated in the anti-Communist Singing Revolution in 1988. For the point, name this Baltic state with its capital at Riga---This politician oversaw the response to the Great Mississippi Flood, although that eﬀort did not fall under his role as Secretary of Commerce. This politician was inaccurately alleged to have promised “a chicken in every pot” during a campaign where he defeated the “Happy Warrior,” Al Smith. This politician created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation after “Black Tuesday” and was the namesake of shantytowns during the Great Depression. For the point, name this president during the 1929 Stock Market Crash. T---This man adapted Diophantus’s concept of “adequality” in his interpretation of inﬁnitesimal calculus. During his time as a lawyer, this man defended a priest who hid an escapee from a Calvinist re-education school. This mathematician struck up a correspondence with Blaise Pascal that formed the basis of probability. This mathematician claimed that the margins of his book were too small to contain a “marvellous” proof for one of his theorems that went unproven for nearly 460 years. For the point, name F this scientist whose “Last Theorem” was ﬁnally proven in 1995 by Andrew Wiles.---Lewis Jones led a ﬂeet of Welsh settlers to the southern region of this nation, founding a colony along the Chubut River that grew into the city of Puerto Madryn. Right-wing paramilitary squads in this nation such as AAA rose up to combat the Montoneros in the Dirty War. In 1982, this nation launched an invasion on an island group known to them as the Malvinas against the United Kingdom. For the point, name this South American nation governed from Buenos Aires. A---A monarch of this dynasty swiftly put an end to Bernard’s Rebellion in Italy and did years of penance in retribution for the bloodiness of the war, leading to him being bestowed the epithet “The Pious.” Another ruler of this family had his life recorded by contemporary scholar Einhard, who wrote much of that biography in Aachen. This dynasty, the successor to the Merovingian line of kings, was founded by the victor of the 732 Battle of Tours. For the point, name this line of Frankish kings named for Charles Martel. R Carolingians (accept Karling, Carlovingians, or Carolingus)---This philosopher claimed that all objects are made up of matter and form, a theory called hylomorphism. This philosopher argued that neither cowardice nor recklessness are virtuous in a work that advocates following the “Golden Mean” in order to achieve eudaimonia. This philosopher founded the Lyceum in Athens, and his lectures are collected in the Nicomachean Ethics. For the point, name this Greek philosopher who tutored Alexander the Great.---One leader of this nation was advised by a group of economists known as the “Berkeley Maﬁa” and followed the Pancasila ideology. A massacre of demonstrators seeking independence from this country occurred in a graveyard in Dili during this country’s occupation of East Timor. The policy of “Guided Democracy” was implemented by the ﬁrst president of this nation, Sukarno. For the point, name this Asian nation that contains the islands of Bali and Java.---This deity turned Lyncus into a lynx after he tried to murder their disciple Triptolemus. This deity is the older of the two subjects of the Eleusinian Mysteries cult. This deity cursed Erysichthon to become so hungry that he ate himself. This deity brought eternal winter after her child was tricked into eating pomegranate seeds. For the point, name this Greek goddess of agriculture whose daughter Persephone lives in the underworld with Hades.---The CNT attempted to overthrow one government during this conﬂict in the so-called “May Days” after Anarcho-Syndicalists allegedly gained control of Telefonico. The Comintern organized the International Brigades to support the Republicans in this war, and Hitler sent the Condor Legion, largely made up of Luftwaﬀe pilots, to ﬁght in it. For the point, name this Iberian conﬂict won by the Falangists led by Francisco Franco.---A poem set during this conﬂict envisions “A voice in the darkness, a knock at the door, and a word that shall echo forevermore!” Poems like “The Indian Burying Ground” and “The Wild Honeysuckle” were written by the so-called poet of this war, Philip Freneau. A poem set during this war opens, “Listen my children, and you shall hear” and tells of a hero who uses a light in the North Church tower as a signal. For the point, name this war, the setting of Longfellow’s “Paul Revere’s Ride.”---After a painting in this building received criticism during the Council of Trent, Il Braghettone R painted ﬁg leaves over many of its nude ﬁgures. Pope Sixtus IV restored this building, which houses the fresco The Last Judgement. God reaches his hand out toward a reclining man in The Creation of Adam, which is found in this building. For the point, name this chapel in Vatican City whose ceiling was painted by Michelangelo. Sistine Chapel---Soldaderas were female soldiers in this civil war who adopted male names to ﬁght.The 1917 Constitution passed during this civil war restricted the Catholic Church and led to the Cristero War of the 1920s under Plutarcho Calles. The ﬁrst year of this “Revolution” led to the end of the Porﬁriato, the 40 year dictatorship of Porﬁrio Diaz. For the point, name this Civil War that included the revolutionaries Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa and was fought in a North American nation.---Jaqueline du Pr´e popularized Edward Elgar’s concerto in E-minor for this instrument, the earliest surviving examples of which were made by celebrated luthier, Andrea Amati. Derek Simpson was featured playing this instrument on The Beatles’s “Strawberry Fields Forever,” and Antonio Stradivari is credited with standardizing its size as somewhat smaller than a bass violin. For the point, name this stringed instrument played by Yo-Yo Ma, the largest instrument in a string quartet.---An extinct subset from the same genus as these domesticated animals named hueques were used by the Mapuche on the island of Mocha [MOTE-sha]. On Lake Maracucha, archaeologists found maize 10,000 feet above sea level brought by herds of this mammal. A relative of the god Inti named Urcuchillay was believed to be one of these camelids, which is one of two members of its genus, along with the guanaco. For the point, name this beast of burden used by Pre-Columbian societies like the Inca.---This ruler retained Boulogne under the terms of the Treaty of Ardres. During the War of the Rough Wooing, this ruler failed to destroy the Auld Alliance. This king was served by Thomas Cromwell, who wrote the Book of Common Prayer after being appointed Archbishop of Canterbury. This king is considered the “Father of the Royal Navy” and popularized the “Divine Right of Kings” in England. For the point, name this king of England known for his six marriages.---This man’s forces were expelled from the Aouzou Strip by the mobile Chad military during the Toyota War. This man showered Condoleezza Rice with $200,000 worth of gifts, including a signed copy of his Green Book, at a private state dinner. This dictator, who died during the 2011 Battle of Sirte, had been overthrown during that year’s Arab Spring by the National Transitional Council. For the point, name this Brotherly Leader and Guide of the Revolution of Libya.---A 1926 book described this desert’s cryptozoological “death worm.” In the 19th century, Nikolai R Przhevalski [shuh-VAL-skee] explored this desert where the world’s ﬁrst dinosaur eggs had earlier been found. The Three North Shelter Forest Program, an attempt to slow this desert’s spread, has met with little success. Along with the Taklamakan desert to its west, this desert was home to portions of the Silk Road. For the point, name this cold weather desert which was territorially divided between China and Mongolia. Gobi Desert---In 1967, Kathrine Switzer became the ﬁrst woman to oﬃcially participate in this event, ﬁnishing the competition despite Jock Semple’s assaults. This event was scheduled, as usual, on Patriot’s Day in 2020 but was postponed, then cancelled, due to COVID-19, the ﬁrst cancellation in its 124 year history. The Tsarnaev [sar-NYE-ev] brothers killed three people in a bombing at the 2013 running of, for the point, what annual long-distance race held in Massachusetts?---Duane Clarridge coordinated CIA support for this group, whose funding was prevented via the Boland Amendment. Attempts to covertly raise funds for this group, which included the FDN, led to indictments against Caspar Weinberger and Oliver North. This group fought a civil war against Daniel Ortega and his Sandanistas. For the point, name this right-wing, anti-communist force in Nicaragua, which was aided by the U.S. with money gained from selling weapons to Iran in a namesake aﬀair.---In this range, Edward Whymper led a notorious ﬁrst ascent of a mountain during which four members of his expedition were killed in 1865. A village in this mountain range provided the site for the Hallstatt culture which preceded the La Tene culture here. Base tunnels in this mountain range have connected Uri and Ticino and decreased train travel times between other cantons as well. For the point, name this range in which the Romansch language has survived near St. Moritz in Switzerland.---The name of these places applied to both the places themselves as well as the governing body that controlled them. Millions of people were allowed to leave these places during the “Great Thaw.” Article 58 was used in the 1920s and 30s to imprison innocent people in these places, and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn wrote a three-volume book on these places. For the point, name this system of forced labor camps in the former Soviet Union.---A decree that gave Jews in this former French colony European citizenship is named for the head of the Alliance Isra`elite Universelle, Adolphe Cr´emieux. The Front de Lib´eration Nationale of this nation signed the Evian Accords with Charles de Gaulle in 1962. That ended an eight-year war of independence in this nation whose native supporters of the French were called “Pied-Noir.” For the point, name this nation which since 2011 has been the largest on the continent of Africa.---Vladimir Peri´c [PEH-ditch] led the resistance in this city while it was under Ustasha rule. NATO R airstrikes in this city were motivated by the Markale market shelling. This city was besieged by Republika Srpska for almost four years, before it was relieved by the Dayton Accords. The Black Hand failed to bomb a carriage in this city, but their goal was achieved by Gavrilo Princip. For the point, name this Bosnian capital where Franz Ferdinand was assassinated. Sarajevo [sarr-uh-YAY-voh]---During a scandal named for this good, Orville Babcock purchased land in Florida using money he received from John McDonald. During that scandal, participants tried to skirt taxes on this good during the Grant administration. The Watermelon Army under Light-Horse Harry Lee suppressed a revolt named for this good, which was sparked by an excise tax issued by Alexander Hamilton. A 1791 rebellion in Western Pennsylvania takes its name from, for the point, what alcoholic beverage?---The conquests of this city and of Yerevan were the subjects of two kiosks built in the Topkapi Palace in Istanbul by Sultan Murat III. This city, built northwest of the ruins of Ctesiphon [TESS-if-on], the Sassanid capital, had its Golden Gate Palace sponsored by its ruler Al-Mansur. The refusal to pay tribute led to Hulagu Khan sacking this city, burning its House of Wisdom, and leaving the Abbasid Caliphate in disarray. For the point, name this modern capital of Iraq.---In one speech, this leader protested “this high-handed outrage upon my citizen’s rights.” This leader introduced a resolution to create the AERA, which split into wings led separately by this F leader and Lucy Stone over the 15th Amendment. Justice Ward Hunt ﬁned this leader $100 for voting in the U.S. presidential election of 1872. For the point, name this woman who founded the National American Woman Suﬀrage Association with Elizabeth Cady Stanton.---
Maya---Olives (accept Olive Oil)---Hirohito (accept Showa Emperor)---Peanuts---Shah D Page 1 ---Republic of Latvia---Herbert Clark Hoover---Pierre de Fermat---Argentina (accept Argentine Republic)---D Page 2 ---Aristotle---Republic of Indonesia T---Demeter (accept Ceres before “Eleusinian”) F---Spanish Civil War (accept Guerra Civil Espan˜ola) A---American Revolution (accept Revolutionary War)---D Page 3 ---Mexican Revolution (accept Revolucion Mexicana)---Violoncello T---Llama (do not accept Alpaca or Guanaco. Editor’s note: Guanaco were not domesticated.) F---Henry VIII of England A---Colonel Muammar Al-Gaddaﬁ (accept pronunciations with a hard or soft “G”)---D Page 4 ---Boston Marathon---Contras T---Alps (accept Pennine Alps before Halstatt) F---Gulags (prompt on prison camps, Soviet labor camps, or similar answers) A---People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria---D Page 5 ---Whiskey (accept Whiskey Rebellion or Whiskey Ring scandal)---Baghdad T Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Susan B. Anthony A R D Page 6---