Nats---False---79
This president’s Secretary of War, George Crawford, resigned after his implication in the Galphin Aﬀair. This president settled a Nicaraguan canal dispute with the British in the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty. Prior to his presidency, this man led a volunteer army against a far larger force led by Santa Anna at the Battle of Buena Vista. This man defeated Winﬁeld Scott as the Whig candidate in the U.S. presidential election of 1848. For the point, name this president who died in oﬃce and was known as “Old Rough and Ready.”---During this dynasty, Grand Councillor Heshen committed suicide after he was discovered to have T embezzled government funds worth 1.1 billion taels. The Eight Trigrams uprising occurred during this dynasty after the Heavenly Principle Sect broke from another group when a tax was levied against the White Lotus movement by Hongli, the Qianlong Emperor. Zeng Guofan studied the aforementioned rebellion when putting down the later Taiping Rebellion during this dynasty. For the point, name this dynasty that succeeded the Ming.---One philosopher with this last name was the author of The History of British India. That philosopher’s daughter-in-law married into this last name and co-authored the proto-feminist work The Subjection of Women. Her husband with this last name was a utilitarian philosopher who argued for women’s suﬀrage as a member of Parliament. For the point, give this last name shared by a Scottish economist, James, and his daughter-in-law, Harriet Taylor, as well as her husband, a British philosopher who defended free speech in the essay On Liberty.---These people sieged Philippopolis under the leadership of Cniva before ambushing his enemies in a swamp at the Battle of Abritus. These people were led to victory by Fritigern after their opponents refused to wait for Gratian’s reinforcements. These people displaced the Sarmatians before they in turn were pushed out by the Huns. After failed negotiations with Honorius, these people sacked Rome under Alaric I. For the point, name this Germanic people split into “Ostro” and “Visi” varieties. Goths (accept Visigoths, do not accept “Ostrogoths”)---This man’s “Three Represents” were written into his country’s constitution, and he created the 6-10 R oﬃce to deal with the Falun Gong. The “socialist market economy” was developed by this man after his predecessor’s “opening up and reform.” After rumors that this man had died, he was seen at the Great Hall of the People on the 100th anniversary of the Xinhai Revolution. This former Shanghai mayor was succeeded by Hu Jintao in his highest position. For the point, name this paramount leader of China who succeeded Deng Xiaoping as China’s military commander-in-chief. Jiang Zemin---Eli Hart’s store of ﬂour was attacked in the aftermath of this event after a ﬁery meeting of the Locofocos. Devaluation of paper currency occurred in this event due to the issuance of a presidential executive order that was favored by Thomas Hart Benton and the advocates of gold and silver. New York banks refused to redeem paper money at full value after this event, which was largely the work of Andrew Jackson. For the point, name this economic recession that followed the Specie Circular during Martin van Buren’s administration.---Medieval religious texts from this region include the termas “A Cavern of Treasures” and “The Brilliance,” which are used by this region’s B¨on religion which originated with the Zhang Zhung culture. The Samye and Jokhang Monasteries were built in this region by members of a religion formalized by Songtsen Gampo. A religious leader from this country formerly ruled from the Potala Palace but now lives in exile in India. For the point, name this autonomous region of southwest China formerly home to T the Dalai Lama.---In a scheme to surrender this city, Belgian consul Edouard Andr´e suggested that the signal “D.W.H.B.” was to be used. Prior to that surrender, in a battle for this city’s port, the message that “only 15 rounds per gun had been used” was mistaken as “only 15 rounds per gun remain,” causing a break in the battle for breakfast. That battle for this city ended with Francis Randall’s death by heart attack as the only F American fatality. The USS Olympia was commanded by George Dewey in the bay of, for the point, what Philippine city?---A victim of this ruler’s military campaign buried the Fenwick treasure. A divining hare was released from the folds of the clothing of this ruler, who then laid siege to a temple for Claudius for two days, taking a bronze head of Nero as a trophy. This ruler’s forces were later trapped by a ring of their own wagons. This ruler trounced the Ninth Legion but was defeated by Suetonius at the Battle of Watling A Street. The towns of Verulamium, Camulodunum, and Londinium were sacked by, for the point, what Iceni [ai-SEE-nai] warrior queen who led a revolt against Rome in Britain?---This body holds 150-day regular sessions, autumn extraordinary sessions, and special sessions which often involve choosing a prime minister-designate. For almost six decades, this body featured a House of Peers that was replaced after World War Two by a House of Councillors. After the 2019 elections, a strong majority in both houses of this body was retained by the LDP and Komeito. This body ﬁrst convened in R its “Imperial” form in 1890 under the Meiji Constitution. For the point, name this bicameral legislature of Japan. Diet of Japan (accept Kokkai)---This ﬁgure wounded rival Matt Stewart in the shoulder during a shoot-out over control of advertising space. This ﬁgure’s FBI ﬁle includes an invitation to J. Edgar Hoover to “show those young people th what celebratin’s about” at this ﬁgure’s corporate-sponsored 80 birthday party in 1970. On the panel show What’s My Line?, this businessman was told he was “too beautiful to work” in his white suit, which he began wearing along with a trademark goatee in the 1950s. For the point, name this American entrepreneur who founded Kentucky Fried Chicken.---This woman was reported to have recruited women to dress as Amazons. This woman’s support for her uncle Raymond of Poitier’s campaigns against the County of Edessa was a source of contention between this woman and her husband, Louis VII. Pope Eugene III annulled that marriage, after which this woman married the Plantagenet king, Henry II, the father of her sons, Richard the Lionhearted and T John. For the point, name this woman, born a duchess from a region of southwestern France, who became queen of both France and England.---This party expanded women’s rights after winning all but three seats in the Massachusetts legislature in 1854. Levi Boone was a mayor of Chicago from this party who sparked the Lager Beer Riot. During a namesake Baltimore riot that took place during the election of Thomas Swann, this party allied with F gangs like the Plug Uglies. Millard Fillmore was reluctant to comment on the activities of this party, even though he was nominated by them in 1856. For the point, name this xenophobic U.S. political party.---This country’s second prime minister established the Central Provident Fund program, popularly known as Medisave. This country’s ﬁrst president was Yusof Ishak, who founded this country’s Utusan Melayu newspaper. In 1965, this country became the ﬁrst to involuntarily become independent, following the recommendation of Tunku Abdul Rahman. This country’s ﬁrst prime minister was Lee Kuan Yew A who led the People’s Action Party. For the point, name this city-state located on an island at the tip of the Malay Peninsula.---In 1977, in this state’s town of Alexander City, the Reverend Willie Maxwell was killed at the funeral for his stepdaughter, his ﬁfth relative to have mysteriously died after Maxwell took out life insurance polices on them. Casey Cep’s 2019 book Furious Hours details how that case nearly inspired the book The Reverend, which was never ﬁnished by an author from this state who worked as a research assistant R on In Cold Blood. For the point, name this state where a rape near Monroeville inspired Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird. Alabama---An eﬀort to block this agreement included the Treaty of Chambord, in which France promised military aid to Maurice of Saxony in his attempts to stop an “Interim” period enacted to negotiate this treaty. The Edict of Restitution attempted to circumvent this treaty, which integrated Calvinism after the later Peace of Westphalia was signed. Charles V brokered this treaty with the Schmalkaldic League, establishing the principle of “cuius regio, eius religio.” For the point, name this 1555 treaty that allowed German states to choose between Lutheranism or Catholicism.---This leader was the only person in the 19th century to die as a member of the House of Representatives and then lie in state in the U.S. Capitol building. This leader went beyond the Ironclad Oath by proposing total disenfranchisement for ﬁve years. This leader claimed that certain territories were “conquered provinces,” and thus legal protections did not apply to them. Along with John Bingham, this leader introduced articles of impeachment against Andrew Johnson. For the point, name this leader of the T Radical Republicans during Reconstruction.---This country was the site of an inland customs line that utilized the “Great Hedge” to collect taxes, stretching to the state of Orissa in the southeast of this country. The Rowlatt Act granted authorities in this country emergency powers which were invoked when Colonel Reginald Dyer’s troops ﬁred on nonviolent protesters at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. One leader of this country led a march to Dandi F to protest the British Raj’s tax on salt. For the point, name this country whose independence movement was led by Mohandas Gandhi.---In this city in 1805, Napoleon, who was about to be crowned king, ordered the facade ﬁnished on a cathedral, and one of the spires was topped with a statue of him. A pair of Italo Calvino-inspired towers containing the Bosco Verticale, were completed in 2014 in this city’s Porta Nuova district. This city’s Porta Ticinese is home to the Roman ruins of the Colonne di San Lorenzo. Santa Maria delle Grazie, A which houses Leonardo’s Last Supper, is in, for the point, what city in Lombardy, the location of the La Scala opera house?---The German engineer Philip Deidesheimer worked at this location that provided a fortune to the Flood and O’Brien brokerage’s “Bonanza Kings.” The economy of this location was dominated by William Ralston’s “Bank Crowd” who unsuccessfully opposed the construction of the Sutro Tunnel. Workers at this location invented square set timbering and developed the Washoe process of pan amalgamation for R extracting silver from its ore. For the point, name this location of the ﬁrst major discovery of silver ore in the United States, found in 1859 in Nevada. Comstock Lode---This leader jumped into the arms of Chuck Connors, the star of his favorite TV show, The Riﬂeman, one of the few American programs aired in this man’s country. This leader consolidated power after the failure of the Kosygin reforms. A doctrine named for this man was used to justify ousting the leader of the KSC and assassinating the leader of the PDPA. This leader signed both SALT treaties, but that did not stop him from authorizing an invasion of Afghanistan. For the point, name this Soviet leader who succeeded Nikita Khrushchev.---In 1961, the U.K.’s Operation Vantage was carried out in defense of this country. In 2006, Saad Al-Sabah brieﬂy took control of this country before being deposed due to health concerns. Troops leaving this country were attacked along Highway 80, also known as the Highway of Death. General Norman Schwarzkopf led coalition forces in repelling an invasion of this country. This country’s oil wells were set on ﬁre by divisions named for Medina and Hammurabi. For the point, name this small Middle Eastern T country invaded by Iraq under Saddam Hussein.---According to legend, Wilhelm Furtw¨angler’s recording of this work inspired the standard storage capacity of the compact disc. At this work’s premiere, Caroline Unger turned the director around to see the audience’s applause after he continued conducting past the conclusion. One section of this work is the oﬃcial anthem of the European Union. Leonard Bernstein conducted this symphony to mark the fall of F the Berlin Wall, replacing one word with the word “freedom.” For the point, name this symphony that includes the “Ode to Joy,” the last composed by Ludwig van Beethoven.---In one of these structures, the central object was surrounded by 20,000 marine-shell disc beads in the shape of a falcon. The Ho-Chunk people are the primary visitors to the “eﬃgy” types of these structures, which are built in the shape of stylized animals. Henry Brackenridge named the largest “platform” type A of these structures called “Monks” in Collinsville, Illinois. “Builders” of these structures constructed over 100 at Cahokia and a “Great Serpent” one in Ohio. For the point, name these piles of earth often used by Native Americans for burial purposes.---This man denounced fascism as a form of “pagan Caesarianism” and employed the slogan “God, Fatherland, and Family.” This man erected a “Camp of the Slow Death” in Tarrafal which was located in the islands of Cape Verde. Pope Leo XIII inﬂuenced the tenets of a regime led by this former professor R of economic policy. The successor of this man faced a liberal rebellion in 1974 known as Revolu¸c˜ao dos Cravos. The non-Brazilian Estado Novo was run by, for the point, what dictator of Portugal for thirty-six years? Salazar---An event that began in this city was inspired by James Fowler’s fatal shooting of Jimmie Lee Jackson in Marion. James Bevel organized that event in this city, in which Amelia Boynton was beaten during “Bloody Sunday.” The Dallas County Voters League organized in this city, where protesters were attacked on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was partly passed in response to a march that began in, for the point, what Alabama city, the starting location of Martin Luther King’s march to Montgomery?---As an apprentice, this man sailed with John Lok, an ancestor of philosopher John Locke, to West Africa. Sailing with the Gabriel and the Michael for Queen Elizabeth I, this explorer sailed to what he believed was Labrador. While on a search for the Northwest Passage, this man thought he discovered gold, but the 1350 tons of rock he brought home turned out to be hornblende. A US Air Force base in Nunavut bore this man’s name. For the point, name this English explorer who names a bay on the southeast corner T of Baﬃn Island.---Stephen Puter hired saloon patrons in this state to help fraudulently claim land, which led to the indictments of this state’s congressmen, John H. Mitchell and John Williamson. The only active senator to die in battle was this state’s Edward Dickinson Baker at Ball’s Bluﬀ. Alaska’s Ernst Gruening and a senator from this state, Wayne Morse, opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution. Jeﬀ Merkley and Ron F Wyden are senators from, for the point, what Paciﬁc Northwest state that, in 2016, became the ﬁrst to elect an openly LGBT governor, Kate Brown?---This country denied entry to refugees on the Komagata Maru, resulting in a riot when the ship returned to Calcutta. German spies attempted to destroy the Vanceboro Bridge on this country’s southern border. The death of Alexis Helmer inspired John McCrae, a soldier from this country, to write the poem “In Flanders Fields.” Four divisions of this country’s Expeditionary Force under Julian Byng defeated the A German 6th Army in World War One’s Battle of Vimy Ridge during this nation’s “Hundred Days.” For the point, name this country led by Robert Borden in World War One.---This group’s commander declared that they would “rebuild an anti-Germany front,” and they won the Battle of Bakhmach. Maurice Janin, a leader of this group, sold out ally Aleksandr Kolchak for safe passage while also taking control of a train ﬁlled with Imperial Gold reserves. This group overran Austrian trenches at the Battle of Zborov in the Kerensky Oﬀensive and were supported by Tom´as Masaryk. For the R point, name this unit that sought Allied support in their battle for independence from Austria-Hungary by ﬁghting Bolsheviks along the Trans-Siberian Railway. Czechoslovak Legion---This person was the primary beneﬁciary in the Hall Carbine Aﬀair. This person formed the Northern Securities Company after allying with James J. Hill to shut out E.H. Harriman from the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad. This person was the junior partner of Anthony Drexel in the formation of a company that ended up ﬁnancing U.S. Steel. This leader pledged much of his fortune to save U.S. credit during the Panic of 1907. For the point, name this Gilded Age ﬁnancier whose namesake bank merged with Chase.---Emmanuel, comte de Las Cases, wrote a “memorial” named for this location. Lord Bathurst was convinced by the testimony of Gaspard Gourgard not to utilize this site’s Rosemary Hall. The Times published several articles suggesting that the government was deliberately leaving this location’s Longwood House in a state of disrepair. The British established a garrison on Ascension Island in preparation for moving a former general to this island in 1815. For the point, name this British island in the South T Atlantic, the site of Napoleon’s ﬁnal exile.---While taking over this entity in 1964, John Okello massacred thousands of Shirazis. Tippu Tib established clove plantations on this entity while working for its leaders as a slave trader. In 1837, Said bin Sultan, the last ruler of a united Omani Empire, moved his capital to this island. The succession of Sultan Khalid bin Barghash on this island led to it being shelled by the British for thirty-eight minutes F in the shortest war in history. The “House of Wonders” was located on this island which, for the point, Julius Nyerere merged with Tanganyika to create the country of Tanzania.---One speech by this man provoked satire and reference to “blight”-ed communities. Peggy Noonan and Craig Smith wrote a speech for this man that compared volunteering organizations to “a brilliant diversity spread like stars.” Lee Atwater aided this man in attacking an opponent with the “Revolving Door” ad during the 1988 Presidential Election, in which this man read the “Thousand Points of Light” A speech. For the point, name this 41st U.S. president who said, “Read my lips: No new taxes.”---After this king’s troops lost at the siege of Amiens, he signed the Treaty of Vervins [vair-VAH] with Henry IV. Though this man’s forces lost at Djerba, his brother beat Uluj Ali with the support of the Holy League of 1571. During this man’s reign, the Duke of Alba held the Council of Blood, and the Seventeen Provinces revolted against him in the Eighty Years’ War. This man ordered the Duke of Medina Sidonia [grav-LEEN]. For the point, name this son of Charles V who to lead an invasion that lost at Gravelines R ordered the failed Spanish Armada.---A plaque at the top of this mountain includes the line “O beautiful for spacious skies.” This mountain’s name is the title of the poem written by Katherine Lee Bates that became the song “America the Beautiful.” The discovery of gold southwest of this mountain around Cripple Creek attracted gold miners called “Fifty Niners.” Originally named James Peak, this mountain was renamed in 1890 to honor a general and explorer who climbed this mountain while assessing the southwestern Louisiana Territory. For the point, name this mountain in Colorado.---
Zachary Taylor---Great Qing Dynasty F---Mill (accept James Mill, Harriet Taylor Mill, and/or John Stuart Mill) A------D Page 1 ---Panic of 1837---Tibet (accept descriptions such as “Tibetan Plateau,” do not accept or prompt on China) ´---Manila (accept Manila Bay)---Boudica (accept Boadicea, accept pronunciations with a hard or a soft “C”)---National D Page 2 ---Colonel Harland David Sanders (accept Colonel Harland F. Sanders, as he appears with that initial in FBI documents)---Eleanor of Aquitaine---Know Nothing(s) (accept Native American Party)---Republic of Singapore---D Page 3 ---Peace of Augsburg (accept Augsburg Settlement)---Thaddeus Stevens---India---Milano---D Page 4 ---Leonid Brezhnev---State of Kuwait---Beethoven’s Symphony Number 9 in D Minor, Opus 125 (accept 9(th) alone after “Beethoven” is read)---Burial mounds (accept Cahokia Mounds before “Ho-Chunk”)---Ant´onio de Oliveira D Page 5 ---Selma, Alabama---Martin Frobisher---Oregon---Canada---D Page 6 ---J(ohn) P(ierpont) Morgan---Saint Helena---Zanzibar---George Herbert Walker Bush (accept Bush 41)---Philip II of Spain D Page 7 ---Pikes Peak T F A R D Page 8---