A---False---8
Landmarks in this location include a “kissing post” and the “stairs of separation.” A 1998 Supreme Court Case gave over eighty percent of its present land to New Jersey. People who traveled to this location underwent a six-second physical and were asked questions such as how much money they had, after which two percent were returned to their country of origin. About 12 million immigrants came to America through, for the point, what island in New York Bay?---This work’s author frequently reminds himself to “Erase impressions!”, and to “Do nothing at random.” In order to enforce discipline, this work was written in Koine Greek by its author while ﬁghting against the Quadi on the Hron River. Reminders of mortality are frequent in this work, which synthesizes its author’s Stoic reﬂections until his death in 180 AD. For the point, name this collection of 12 books of moral philosophy, written by Emperor Marcus Aurelius.---This group backed the bishop of Warmia against Casimir IV in the War of the Priests and successfully put down the St. George’s Night Uprising. This group signed the Treaty of Melno after it lost the Gollub War. Alexander Nevsky defeated the forces of this group over Lake Peipus at the Battle of the Ice. Ulrich von Jungingen was killed leading this group to defeat against Polish-Lithuanian forces at the Battle of Grunwald. For the point, name this order of crusading knights of German origin who formed to assist Christian travelers to the holy land.---These people allied with British colonists in the Covenant Chain. A member of this group, Handsome Lake, founded a religious movement named after their traditional multi-family houses. These people follow the Great Law of Peace, and some practice the Longhouse Religion. In 1722, the Tuscaroras joined them from North Carolina, before which they were known as the “Five Nations”. For the point, the Senecas and Mohawks are members of what confederacy of Native American tribes in upstate New York?---Robert Wilcox launched multiple rebellions in this location. The Blount and Morgan Reports gave contradictory accounts of an uprising here led by U.S. Marines and ordered by John L. Stevens. Lorrin Thurston led the pro-annexation Committee of Safety in this territory. Sanford Dole appointed himself [”lily”-oh-kalani] in, for the point, what Paciﬁc President after the overthrowing of Queen Liliuokalani territory that became the 50th U.S. state?---German businessman John Rabe established a “Safety Zone” before a battle in this city. En route to a battle in this city, two soldiers had a contest to see who could be the ﬁrst to kill 100 people using their swords. A treaty that was signed in this city ceded Hong Kong to Britain and ended the ﬁrst Opium War. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed during the Second Sino-Japanese War in the “Rape” of, for the point, what Chinese city?---The founder of this religion was imprisoned in the Siyah-Chal, and declared in the Ridvan gardens that he was “He whom God shall make manifest.” William Sears, the last living Hand of the Cause of this religion, died in 1992. The history of this religion is the subject of God Passes By by Shoghi Eﬀendi. This religion is governed by the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, Israel, and was founded by followers of the Bab. For the point, name this Iranian religion founded by Baha’u’llah.---A G minor piece written for this occasion ends with a pastorale and was the eighth concerto grosso of Arcangelo Corelli’s Opus 6. Songs for this occasion include ones named for Wexford and Coventry, whose performance was banned by the Rump Parliament of Oliver Cromwell. King George II began a tradition of standing up during another piece performed around this holiday. For the point, Handel’s Messiah and carols such as “O Holy Night” are performed for what December holiday?---This group of people asked if they would be “the only ones for whom the iron age will forever exist” in a petition that also included 10 proposed decrees presented to the National Assembly. In October 1789, in response to the skyrocketing price of bread, these people marched to Versailles and brought Louis XVI and his family back to Paris. For the point, name this demographic, the subject of an Olympe de Gouge treatise that demanded gender equality.---One leader with this surname denied alimony payments to Shah Bano with a law overruling his country’s Supreme Court. In 1991, on behalf of the LTTE, Dhanu launched a suicide bomb attack, killing that leader with this name. Another leader with this name suspended political liberties in 1975 during the Emergency, ordered Operation Blue Star in 1984, and was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards. For the point, give this surname shared by members of the Indian National Congress, including Rajiv and Indira.---One man convicted of participating in this event was earlier tried for assassinating Meir Kahane. Various planners of this event were followers of the Blind Sheikh. The perpetrators of this event mailed out letters claiming to be members of “Liberation Army, Fifth Battalion.” Six people died in this event, which involved Ramzi Yousef driving a yellow Ryder truck ﬁlled with explosives into a parking garage below the North Tower. For the point, name this attack on a New York building that was destroyed eight years later on September 11th. ﬁrst World Trade Center bombing (accept descriptions of the 1993 bombing of the WTC;---Leslie Collier’s use of peptone and the invention of the bifurcated needle helped improve this procedure. A new method for this procedure was ﬁrst performed on James Phipps and was invented after an observation that milkmaids infected with a mild disease caught from cows were resistant to a more common serious disease. For the point, name this protection against a now eradicated skin disease, invented by Edward Jenner.---This leader enacted the Law of Political Responsibilities to justify the oppression of political opponents. The ETA carried out Operation Ogre, which assassinated one of this leader’s supporters, Prime Minister Luis Carrero Blanco. This man brieﬂy restored the monarchy by naming Juan Carlos I as his successor, who then reformed his country into a democracy. The Falangist and Carlist movements were merged during a 1930s civil war by, for the point, what Spanish dictator who died in 1975?---One agreement concerning oil production in this body of water was signed by Heydra Aliyev in 1994 and was known as the “Contract of the Century.” The Garabogazkol lagoon lies to the east of this body of water, where sturgeon overﬁshing is a major concern. A pipeline running from this sea goes through Tbilisi to Ceyhan on the Mediterranean, delivering oil from Baku. The Volga River ﬂows into, for the point, what largest saltwater lake in the world, a sea that borders countries like Azerbaijan and Russia?---This man noted “The system broken, the schools closed, the prisons open” in a song that sampled King Crimson, and remixed a track that sampled Shirley Bassey to add a verse about blood diamonds. This rapper of “POWER” and “Diamonds from Sierra Leone” caused controversy at a beneﬁt concert for Hurricane Katrina when he stated that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.” for the point, name this rapper who interrupted Taylor Swift at the VMAs and recorded “Gold Digger.”---The Allon Plan was a proposal to partition territory involved in this conﬂict. The USS Liberty was sunk during this conﬂict, whose end led to the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 242. Shortly before this conﬂict, the Straits of Tiran were closed by Gamal Abdel Nasser. The winning side in this conﬂict gained the Sinai Peninsula, the West Bank and the Golan Heights thanks to a surprise attack that devastated the Egyptian air force. For the point, name this 1967 Arab-Israeli war that lasted less than a week. Six Day War (accept Third Arab-Israeli War; prompt on Arab-Israeli War before mentioned)---This man’s assassin was wrestled to the ground by three men, including George Plimpton, and Juan Romero placed a rosary in this man’s hand after his death. He delivered an impromptu speech in Indianapolis atop a ﬂatbed truck after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. This former Attorney General was running in the 1968 Democratic primary when he was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan. For the point, name this brother of John F. Kennedy Robert “Bobby” Kennedy (accept RFK)---The forces of one ruler with this name put down the Monmouth Rebellion, which led to trials known as the Bloody Assizes. One ruler with this name died at the Battle of Flodden Field. The birth of Mary of Modena’s son with this name helped spark the Glorious Revolution. One ruler with this name was targeted by Robert Catesby and Guy Fawkes in the Gunpowder Plot. For the point, give this name of seven Kings of Scotland and the ﬁrst Stuart King of England.---This man consolidated the power of the federal government with the Seven Laws. This man forced Isidro Barradas to sign the Capitulation of Pueblo Viejo. This target of the Plan of Ayutla was wounded by French grapeshot during the Pastry War. This man signed the Treaty of Velasco with the Republic of Texas after the Battle of San Jacinto. For the point, name this wooden-legged Mexican general who won the Battle of the Alamo.---This nation lost a match whose nickname refers to an injury to Ervin Zador. After controversially losing to this nation, Doug Collins and his teammates refused to accept silver medals. This nation, which lost the 1956 “Blood in the Water” water polo match to Hungary, lost a semi-ﬁnal game at Lake Placid in the “Miracle on Ice”. For the point, name this nation that boycotted the 1984 Los Angeles Summer Olympics after hosting the previous Summer Olympics in Moscow.---The narrator of one of this author’s poems states “those that I ﬁght I do not hate / those that I guard I do not love” and commemorated the failed rebellion of republicans Patrick Pearse and James Connally in another poem. This poet of “An Irish Airman Foresees His Death” incorporated his theory of history as a gyre in a poem where a rough beast “slouches toward Bethlehem to be born”. For the point, name this Irish poet of “The Second Coming” and “Easter, 1916.”---The city was the subject of the Pabst Plan. A mass suicide occurred on 18 Ulica Mila in this city, where a failed uprising was detailed in the Stroop Report. The Home Army launched a 1944 uprising in this city, which was defeated and led to the planned destruction of 90% of this city’s buildings. Mordechai Anielewicz [ahn-yail-eh-vitch] led an uprising against the Nazis in this city’s Jewish Quarter, the largest Jewish ghetto in World War II Europe. For the point, name this capital of Poland.---This entity’s seal includes a ﬂoating liberty cap above a ﬂag wreathed in olive branches. The Origination Clause adversely aﬀects this entity’s power, and one power held by this entity was held to apply only to the appointment of oﬃcials in Myers v. US. The standing rules of this body provide for closed sessions as well as the ability to invoke cloture, a method of bringing debate to a quick end with 67 votes. Filibusters are often used in this chamber to eﬀectively raise vote requirements to 60. For the point, name this upper house of the U.S. Congress, currently consisting of 100 members. Senate (do not accept “Congress”)---During the 1980’s, this country’s army attacked civilians in Matabeleland in the Gukurahundi. Its president at the time, Canaan Banana, was convicted for homosexuality in 1998. The Movement for Democratic Change, an opposition party in this country, is led by a former union leader who left the Patriotic Front of the ruling ZANU party, Morgan Tsvangirai [CHAN-girr-eye]. For the point, name this African country that has suﬀered from hyperinﬂation under Robert Mugabe.---Lorenzo Valla discredited an alleged document written by this ruler which put Rome under the authority of the Papacy. This ruler claimed divine intervention and the sign of the Chi-Rho [kye-row] helped him defeat Maxentius. Two years after Galerius issued the Edict of Toleration, this ruler issued the Edict of Milan to give Christianity legal status within Rome. For the point, name this Roman emperor who won the Battle of Milvian Bridge.---A large, monochromatic white depiction of this object was made using encaustic, and was inspired by a 1954 dream. The artist of that painting also depicted three of these objects in diﬀerent sizes on top of each other. A photograph by Joe Rosenthal depicts ﬁve servicemen lifting one of these items atop Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima. Jasper Johns frequently painted, for the point, what red, white, and blue banner that was supposedly ﬁrst sewn by Betsy Ross?---Sixty German soldiers were killed on New Year’s Day in the Chenogne massacre during this battle. During this battle, Omar Bradley was detained when one of his men believed that the capital of Illinois was Chicago. During this battle, the Meuse River oﬀensive stalled, and Anthony McAuliﬀe refused to surrender despite being surrounded at Bastogne within enemy lines. For the point, name this last major German oﬀensive on the Western Front in World War II, named for the deformation caused in the American line.---This country established the “Closer Economic Relations” free trade agreement with its western neighbor. This country adopted the Think Big economic program under Rob Muldoon, which was replaced by free market reforms by ﬁnance minister Roger Douglas. This country was founded shortly after William Hobson organized the Treaty of Waitangi. For the point, name this Oceanic country, home to the Maori people, whose capital of Wellington is on the North Island. New Zealand---In October 2015, this man controversially claimed the Grand Mufti convinced Hitler to carry out the Holocaust. This man noted “Perhaps you can now understand[...]” after 44 seconds of silence during a 2015 speech to the UN General Assembly. During a March 2015 election, this leader commented that “Arabs are going to the polls in droves” and that if elected, there would be no Palestinian State. For the point, name this leader of the Likud Party and Prime Minister of Israel. Netanyahu---A structure along this river was deliberately destroyed near Caernarvon to protect a larger population center, on the orders of banker James Butler. This river’s Mounds Landing was the site of a deadly breach where African-Americans were forced to pile sandbags at gunpoint. Relief eﬀorts along this river were led by the “Great Humanitarian,” Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, in contrast to President Coolidge’s inaction. For the point, a “Great” 1927 ﬂood aﬀected what river, whose banks are home to the cities of St. Louis and New Orleans?---Three Flags Day commemorates the ﬁnalization of this agreement, and Fort Osage was built in the wake of this agreement. Francois de Barbe-Marbois oﬃcially presented this agreement to Robert Livingston, the American negotiator of this agreement, and the Haitian Revolution reinforced this agreement’s necessity to Napoleon. Lewis and Clark were sent to explore the land acquired through this agreement. For the point, name this land sale that dramatically expanded the size of the United States under Thomas Jeﬀerson’s presidency.---
Ellis Island---Meditations of Marcus Aurelius---Teutonic Knights or Teutonic Order (accept Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem)---Iroquois Confederacy (or League; accept Haudenosaunee; prompt on “Five Nations” or “Six Nations”)---Hawaii (accept any description of the kingdom, territory, or state of Hawaii) Page 1 ---Nanking or Nanjing---Baha’i Faith---Christmas---women (or equivalents; prompt on “the French” or “the Third Estate”)---Gandhi (accept Rajiv Gandhi or, after “1975,” Indira Gandhi)---accept equivalents for bombing, like attack) Page 2 ---smallpox vaccine (prompt on partial answer, accept word forms for “vaccine”)---Francisco Franco---Caspian Sea---Kanye West (accept either; prompt on “Ye” or “Yeezy”)------Page 3 ---James---Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna---Soviet Union (or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; do not accept or prompt on Russia)---William Butler Yeats---Warsaw [or Warsawa]---United States Page 4 ---Zimbabwe---Constantine the Great (or Constantine I)---American ﬂags (prompt on “ﬂags”)---Battle of the Bulge (accept Ardennes Oﬀensive or equivalents)------Benjamin Page 5 ---Mississippi River Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Louisiana Purchase Page 6---