C---False---83
This city changed hands after the battle of Desio, but the winning family died out after Filippo Maria Visconti bore no heirs, leading to the creation of this city’s Golden Ambrosian Republic. The Peace of Lodi ended this city’s wars with Venice and established the Sforza family as the rightful rulers of this city. For the point, name this city in Northern Italy, the capital of Lombardy.---This country’s 1975 Family Protection Law expanded access to divorce to women, who had earned the right to vote in the 1963 White Revolution. Those reforms were instituted by Reza Pahlavi, but this country rolled back those reforms after a 1979 revolution brought Ayatollah Khomeini [ko-MEH-nee] to power. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country in which, in a 1998 show of progress, two women were allowed to watch a men’s World Cup qualifying match in Tehran.---Henry Vane and John Cotton attended this leader’s religious meetings, which developed into the Antinomian controversy. The Portsmouth Compact was signed by 23 of her followers after she was banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Roger Williams supported, for the point, what Puritan who moved her followers to modern Rhode Island?---After the fall of this empire, Blas Ruiz and Gaspar da Cruz visited it during the Longvek Era. In visiting this state’s capital, Zhou Daguan saw a building based oﬀ Mount Meru. This empire was destroyed by Ayutthaya and founded by Jayavarman II, who called it Kampuchea. Suryavarman II created a massive temple complex dedicated to Vishnu in its capital. Angkor Wat was built by, for the point, what medieval Cambodian empire?---In Krasnoyarsk Krai in this region, eighty million trees were felled by a probable meteor in 1908, though no impact crater was found. It is home to the most voluminous freshwater lake in the world, Lake Baikal. The Tunguska event hit, for the point, what sparsely populated region whose tundra and taiga make up the eastern two-thirds of Russia? Siberia (prompt on “Russia” before mentioned, accept “Tunguska” forest before Lake Baikal;---The Battle of Magnesia followed one battle fought at the same site as this battle. 700 Thessalians were slaughtered and a force of Phocians were bypassed during this battle, where one leader replied “come and take them” when asked prior to this battle to lay down his arms. Ephialtes [eﬀ-EE-all-TEES] led the Immortals through a mountain pass to outﬂank the losers of this battle, which was fought at the same time as the Battle of Artemesium. For the point, name this battle, where Xerxes II forced a last stand by Leonidas and 300 Spartans.---The “Smoking Him Out” cartoon depicted Democratic supporters of this party setting a barn on ﬁre while proclaiming “Long life to Davy Wilmot.” It nominated Martin van Buren for the 1848 presidential election in its founding year, but the Compromise of 1850 led most of its moderate members to leave the party. For the point, name this 19th century American single-issue political party named for its opposition to slavery?---This company’s CEO, Kazuo Hirai, pressured Amy Pascal to edit one of this company’s ﬁlms so that Kim Jong-Un’s head would not explode. The “Guardians of Peace” demanded that this company cancel that Seth Rogen ﬁlm, The Interview, and released a series of hacked internal e-mails from this company. For the point, name this Japanese company, whose other entertainment products include the Playstation. Sony (accept Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc.; accept Sony Computer Entertainment---Seven months after attending a meeting in Paris to accept this program, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Mazaryk was thrown out of his bathroom window. Vyacheslav [vich-ih-SLAV] Molotov rejected this program for the entire Eastern Bloc, and its ﬁrst action supplemented the Truman Doctrine by funding Greece and Turkey. The U.K. and France received the most aid from, for the point, what program in which the United States provided $13 billion to rebuild Europe following World War 2?---Missouri governor Lilburn Boggs attempted to reduce this man’s power by issuing the Extermination Order. His failed joint stock company, Kirtland Safety Society, led him to relocate in an area he called “Zion”. This man’s order to destroy the facilities of the newspaper Nauvoo Expositor led to his execution by a mob while in jail, after which he was succeeded as his group’s president by Brigham Young. For the point, name this founder of Mormonism. Smith, Jr.---To consolidate his rule, this monarch ordered all civilian-owned weapons to be melted down and molded into twelve massive bronze statues. In his ﬁrst act as a king, this monarch banished his minister and former regent Lu Buwei. This emperor, who ordered that all books not dealing with divination, medicine, or agriculture be burnt, is buried in a tomb surrounded by thousands of statues. For the point, [CHIN] Dynasty. name this builder of the Terracotta Army and ﬁrst Chinese emperor from the Qin---A group of these people surprised a force led by Gaius Claudius Glaber by using vines to climb down Mount Vesuvius, but they were betrayed by Cilician pirates who refused to transport them to Sicily. After losing the Battle of the Siler River, a group of these people was cruciﬁed along the Appian Road by Crassus. For the point, name this group of people led by Spartacus who performed menial labor in Rome, sometimes including sport ﬁghts in the Colosseum.---A temple called the Serapeum served as one of these institutions but was destroyed by a Christian mob in 391 CE. Ptolemy I was inspired by Ashurbanipal’s creation of one of these to build one with hundreds of thousands of papyrus scrolls. For the point, name these cornerstones of learning, whose “Great” one at Alexandria was an ancient Wonder of the World.---Thorismund became king after his father died in battle against these people in Gaul. One ruler of these people took the gift of Honoria’s ring as a marriage proposal, beginning a campaign that ended at the Catalaunian Plains against Theodoric and Flavius Aetius [AYE-tee-us]. Another leader of these people, Bleda, was killed by his brother while on a hunting trip. For the point, name these nomadic people who lost the Battle of Chalons [sha-LONE] under their leader, Attila.---Deliveries of this material from “4th Grade, Greendale School” in New Jersey were sent to Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy. Bruce Ivins was considered a suspect in a crime involving this material, which came in both a grainy brown form, found at the New York Post, and a reﬁned powder found with the message “You die now/Are you afraid?” Shortly after the 9/11 attacks, two senators were mailed, for the point, what biological agent that that causes a deadly disease when its spores are inhaled?---After this event, Boston Corbett killed the perpetrator, Lewis Powell and Mary Surratt were executed, and Samuel Mudd was imprisoned for providing aid to the perpetrator. It occurred shortly before the scream “Sic semper tyrannis!” and a jump from the Presidential box during a showing of “Our American Cousin” at Ford Theater. For the point, name this 1865 event in which John Wilkes Booth shot and killed the U.S. President.---This company attempted to recruit people working for its competitors in Operation SLOG. Barack Obama’s former campaign manager David Plouﬀe advises this company, which was founded by Travis Kalanick. In 2013, it partnered with Home Depot to deliver Christmas trees in select cities, though this competitor of Lyft has been criticized for classifying its drivers as independent contractors and its automatic “surge pricing”. For the point, name this controversial smartphone taxicab-hailing app. Uber---Ida Klaus created a modiﬁed version of this law for New York City. The Supreme Court upheld the legality of an organization that was formed out of this law after a challenge from Jones & Laughlin Steel. This law didn’t apply to federal government and railroad workers. Along with the Norris-Laguardia Act, the Taft-Hartley Act weakened many parts of this law. The National Labor Relations Board was created out of this law in order to ensure collective bargaining. For the point, name this 1935 New Deal labor law.---The density of this entity can be approximated by George Gamow’s liquid drop model, as done in the semi-empirical mass formula. The strong force is only experienced in this location. While testing J.J. Thomson’s plum-pudding model, Rutherford discovered the mass of an atom was concentrated in this location. For the point, name this central part of an atom composed of protons and neutrons.---This person had Locusta poison his rival and step-brother Britannicus. After the Pisonian conspiracy, this ruler executed the poet Lucan and his tutor, Seneca the Younger. He commissioned a thirty meter high Colossus of himself in front of the Domus Aurea, a huge palace he built over the ruins of aristocratic houses destroyed by ﬁre. His death was followed by the Year of the Four Emperors, ending the Julio-Claudian dynasty. For the point, name this emperor who supposedly ﬁddled while Rome burned.---This composer wrote a Requiem for the author of The Betrothed, Alessandro Manzoni. In one opera by this compeer, the high priest Zaccaria opposes Nebuchadnezzar and a chorus of Hebrew slaves sings “Va, pensiero.” This composer of Nabucco wrote an opera in which the guard Radames [rah-dah-meez] falls in love with the title Egyptian princess and which features the “Triumphal March”. For the point, name this Italian composer of Aida [ah-EE-dah]. Verdi---This painting’s creation was prompted by an incident that occurred oﬀ of the coast of Senegal in 1816. Fellow artist Eug`ene Delacroix [oo-ZHEN dell-ah-QUA] served as a live model for this painting. A hatchet in the foreground of this painting suggests that its subjects may have resorted to cannibalism. A man with a red cloak over his head mourns the loss of his son in this painting, in which a shirtless man on a barrel can be seen waving a red and white cloth. For the point, name this work by Th´eodore G´ericault [tay-oh-DOOR ZHAIR-ee-COH] depicting the aftermath of French maritime disaster.---In this city, William Kieft fought against the Lenape [luh-NAH-pee] tribe in the Wappinger War. The ﬁrst European settlement in this city was created in 1609 when the Half Moon sailed through its Narrows. Peter Stuyvesant [STY-veh-sant] created a canal on this current city’s Broadway. For the point, name this American city once called New Amsterdam, where the ﬁnancial center of Wall Street commemorates a structure that protected against Native Americans. New York City (or NYC; accept New Amsterdam before mentioned)---One participant in this event tried to commit suicide by ingesting expired cyanide and jumping into a river, but the river was only a few inches deep. That man and several others had been organized by a man codenamed Apis to carry out this action. This event led to the July Ultimatum and was perpetrated by a member of the Black Hand named Gavrilo Princip. For the point, name this event, the killing of an Austrian Archduke that is considered to have sparked World War One.---This region’s Marie Byrd Land is unclaimed. The Ross Dependency in this region is claimed by New Zealand, whose national airline charters ﬂights from Auckland to McMurdo Station but, in 1979, lost a sightseeing plane that crashed into Mount Erebus on Ross Island here. The Drake Passage separates South America from, for the point, what least habited and coldest continent on Earth, where Richard Byrd ﬂew over the South Pole?---This territory’s monarchy was weakened and its Asians were stripped of voting rights by Lorrin Thurston’s Bayonet Constitution. In 1894, a coup d’etat installed Sanford Dole as President of this territory until it was annexed by the U.S., who built a naval base at its Pearl Harbor. For the point, name this territory acquired after Queen Liliuokalani was overthrown on the island of Oahu.---This man’s failure to throw out Sid Bream preceded 20 years of losing seasons for the Pittsburgh Pirates. After Jose Canseco, he was the second player to hit 40 home runs and steal 40 bases. He was accused of using performance-enhancing drugs by reporters for the San Francisco Chronicle, and of perjury in an investigation of Victor Conte’s BALCO. For the point, name this former Giant outﬁelder who, in 2001, hit a season-record 73 home runs, part of his career-record 763 homers.---Connie Mulder tried to use government funds to internationally promote support for this policy. Opponents of this policy were targeted in the Sharpeville massacre, which led to the establishment of Umkhonto We Sizwe. Supporters of this policy allowed for the creation of Bantustans. This policy was ended after the electoral victory of the African National Congress under Nelson Mandela. For the point, name this policy of racial segregation during 20th century South Africa.---One poem about this conﬂict talks about how the dead “lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow.” Another poem about this conﬂict asks “What passing bells for those who die as cattle”; that poem’s author was heavily inﬂuenced by his friend Siegfried Sassoon. One poem about this war considers the title, which is taken from Horace, “The old Lie”. For the point, name this war, the setting of “Dolce et Decorum est” by Wilfred Owen and “In Flanders’ Fields,” which was fought between 1914 and 1918. World War I or First World War (or WWI or Great War)---The graﬃti phrase “Beliefs become reality” anticipated this event, which was demanded by a leader who called “if you seek liberalization, come here.” Gu¨nter Schabowski’s announcement of new refugee transit policies sparked this event, which began with sledgehammers and started the process of reuniﬁcation. For the point, name this November 1989 event, a symbol of the end of the Cold War, which was requested by Ronald Reagan in his “Tear down this wall!” speech.---This nation was led by former United Fruit Company lawyer Juan Galvez during a successful 1954 general strike. In 1998, its president, Carlos Flores, said that “50 years of progress” had been reversed by Hurricane Mitch. This nation, which O Henry labeled a “banana republic,” fought the brief Soccer War with El Salvador. For the point, name this Central American nation with capital Tegucigalpa.---
Milan---Islamic Republic of Iran---Anne Hutchinson or Anne Marbury---Khmer Empire or Kingdom (accept Kampuchea until mention)---do not accept USSR) Page 1 ---Battle of Thermopylae [therm-AH-puh-lee]---Free Soil Party---Company Inc.)---Marshall Plan (or European Recovery Program or ERP)---Joseph---Qin Shi Huangdi (accept Zhao Zheng or Ying Zheng) Page 2 ---Roman slaves or gladiators---library---Huns---anthrax spores (or anthrax bacteria; accept descriptions that name anthrax; prompt on biological weapons)---assassination of Abraham Lincoln (accept equivalents)---Page 3 ---Wagner Act (or the National Labor Relations Act of 1935)---nucleus of an atom (prompt on atom alone until mentioned)---Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus---Giuseppe---The Raft of the Medusa or La Radeau de la Meduse---Page 4 ---assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (accept equivalents)---Antarctica---Hawaii (or Hawaiian Territory or Kingdom of Hawaii)---Barry Lamar Bonds---Apartheid---Page 5 ---fall of the Berlin Wall (accept any equivalents about the removal of the Berlin Wall; prompt on “tear down this wall” before mentioned; prompt on “the end of the Cold War” before mentioned) Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Honduras Page 6---