Nats---False---86
At this battle, A.P. Hill crucially brought a group of Confederate reinforcements from Harpers Ferry, preventing the collapse of the right ﬂank to Ambrose Burnside’s troops. Early in this battle, ﬁghting was centralized around a 30-acre cornﬁeld owned by David Miller. Robert E. Lee retreated across the Potomac following this battle, which gave Abraham Lincoln the political capital needed to issue the Emancipation Proclamation. For the point, name this battle that occurred near Sharpsburg, Maryland, the bloodiest single-day battle of the Civil War.---Gilles Deleuze referred to this philosopher as a “solitary thinker” in his pseudo-biography Expressionism T in Philosophy. This philosopher worked as a lens grinder for the astronomer Christiaan Huygens which may have led to his death by exposing him to powdered glass. One of this philosopher’s books inspired Wittgenstein’s system of numbering statements with its “geometric” ordering. Due to his pantheistic views, this philosopher was expelled from the Amsterdam Jewish community. For the point, name this Dutch philosopher who wrote Ethics.---In this lake’s portion of the Atlantropa project, German architect Herman S¨orgel planned to reﬁll a basin around this lake to create a shipping lane to Africa’s center. Septimius Flaccus and Julius Maternus discovered this lake for the Romans. Outﬂow from this lake causes massive dust storms when it enters the Bod´el´e Depression. Much of this lake’s water comes from the Chari River, as well as the Yobe River from Nigeria. For the point, name this lake that borders Cameroon and Niger and shrank by 95 percent between 1963 and 1998.---A majority opinion from this justice established the Erie doctrine which holds that state law must be applied by federal courts. This justice wrote “if a government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law” in his dissent from Olmstead v. United States. This man used a landmark 100-page scientiﬁcally-based legal brief compiled by Josephine Goldmark to argue for shorter labor hours for women in Muller v. Oregon. For the point, name this man, nominated in 1916 to be the ﬁrst Jewish person on the Supreme Court. Brandeis---This man issued the decree Venerabilem to Berthold V, Duke of Zahringen, declaring that the German princes could determine their king. This man was elected Pope after Celestine III died, and he made Frederick II the king of Sicily to regain papal power in the region. This pope placed England under interdict after John chose the Bishop of Norwich, John de Grey, over Stephen Langton as Archbishop of Canterbury. For the point, name this medieval pope who called for the Fourth Lateran Council and the Fourth Crusade. Innocent III---After Alexander the Great conquered this city, he installed Orepius as its ruler. Tarkhun was the ruler of this city before being defeated by Qutayba ibn Muslim. Following the Battle of Talas, this city became home to the ﬁrst paper mill in the Islamic world. The Shah-i-Zinda royal tombs are located in this city which served as a stop along the Silk Road. The Gur-e Amir mausoleum was built by a ruler of this city who was famed for his Sack of Delhi. For the point, name this city used as Tamerlane’s capital, the second largest city in Uzbekistan.---During Hyksos rule, this god was syncretized with Hadad to form a new chief deity. This god’s temples were decorated with images of a mysterious animal called a “sha.” At the Temple of Hibis, this god was depicted ﬁghting Apep, the god of chaos. The defeat of this god was celebrated with a hippopotamus hunt. This god is the brother of Osiris, who he killed and dismembered. This god’s conﬂict with his nephew may have been inspired by the invading Nubians. For the point, name this god of the desert whose myths T are ﬁlled with his conﬂicts with his nephew, Horus.---Two followers of this man, Fred Dryer and William Shakespeare, were convicted in the 1922 murder of Reverend James Eason, who this man had expelled from the UNIA. Chandler Owen led a movement against this man after he met with KKK Grand Wizard Edward Young Clarke in Atlanta. This man was imprisoned for ﬁve years for mail fraud after purchasing the SS Yarmouth as head of the Universal Negro F Improvement Association. For the point, name this Black leader who advocated for African-Americans to return to Africa on his Black Star Line.---This treaty superseded Alexander VI’s earlier papal bull Inter caetera, and an addendum to this treaty was motivated by the discovery of the Maluku Islands, once known as the Spice Islands. Prior to its extension by the Treaty of Zaragoza, this treaty only applied to one side of the Earth. This treaty has been invoked in Chilean claims on Antarctica. King John II negotiated this agreement to avoid ceding A India to his country’s only European neighbor. For the point, name this 1494 treaty that divided up the New World between Spain and Portugal.---Under this leader’s administration, the Bird Commission addressed forced property conﬁscation. MP Arthur-Joseph Lapointe helped this leader navigate the Conscription Crisis. This leader said he “would not give a ﬁve-cent piece” for unemployment relief during an election loss to Richard Bedford Bennett. Governor-General Lord Byng refused to dissolve parliament at the request of this leader, instead asking R Conservative Arthur Meighen to form a government. For the point, name this longest-serving Canadian Prime Minister. King---One of this architect’s buildings housed the Shuckburgh telescope, used in the ﬁrst assisted observation of Mercury’s transit. This architect’s only work constructed in the United States serves as the campus headquarters for the College of William and Mary. This architect designed a church that was the site of the funerals of Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher. For the point, name this architect who designed the Old Royal Observatory in Greenwich and St. Paul’s Cathedral as well as redesigning much of London after the Great Fire in 1666.---This politician’s “Hands” ad showed a white man crumpling a job rejection letter while a narrator insisted “you were the best qualiﬁed.” An amendment named for this politician forbids the use of foreign aid funds for abortions. Michael Jordan was criticized for declining to endorse the ﬁrst African-American student at Clemson, Harvey Gantt, in his race against this politician. This politician worked with Joe Biden to reform United Nations funding as head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. For the T point, name this senator from North Carolina.---Strabo wrote about the Mysians of this region who did not consume living things, known as kapnobatai or “smoke-treaders.” One legend of Orpheus says that, while mourning the death of Eurydice, he rejected the women of this region who then tore him to pieces. Plato’s students, Python and Heraclides, were showered with rewards for killing a king of this region, Cotys I. Javelin-carrying infantry called F “peltast” came from this region from which Spartacus also hailed. For the point, name this ancient region, located largely in modern Bulgaria.---A terrorist from this country hired a woman who went by the name Dhanu to kill another country’s prime minister with an explosive belt. The Koneswaram is a temple that has been reconstructed in this country’s city of Trincomalee. Velupillai Prabhakaran headed an organization in this country that fought a 25 year civil war against a coalition that included the Indian Peace Keeping Force. That group fought A against the majority Sinhalese government of this country. For the point, name this nation, the base of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.---During a 2007 debate, one of these locations was compared by Rudy Giuliani to Mitt Romney’s mansion. Attention to these locations grew after the shooting death of Kate Steinle. In October, 2017, Jerry Brown signed a bill eﬀectively making the state of California one of these locations, which led Donald Trump to threaten to cut all federal funding and Jeﬀ Sessions to suggest state leaders were R “radical extremists.” For the point, give this term for jurisdictions that limit their cooperation with the federal government’s enforcement of immigration law. Sanctuary cities (accept any answer involving sanctuary)---An African-American orator nicknamed “Black Harry” Hosier was a popular circuit-rider during this event. The newspaper Signs of the Times promoted the ideas of one group from this event in the lead-up to the “Great Disappointment.” A 20,000-strong camp meeting in Bourbon County, Kentucky during this event was called the Cane Ridge Revival. Followers of Baptist preacher William Miller during this event later split into various Adventist sects. For the point, name this Protestant religious revival during the early 19th century.---This ruler was forced to change his initial successor due to inﬂuence of the sect of Skhariya the Jew. This man gained supremacy over a neighboring city by crushing their forces at the Battle of Shelon River and later promulgated the ﬁrst Sudebnik law code. This husband of Zoe Palaiologina refused to pay tribute to Akhmat Khan and successfully threw oﬀ the Tatar “yoke” at the Great Stand on the Ugra River. For the point, name this Great Prince of Moscow who successfully gathered the Russian lands, T known as the “Great’---This ﬁgure’s role in political aﬀairs increased after their spouse’s aﬀair with Dovie Beams was exposed. The Beatles’s decision to decline an invitation from this ﬁgure to attend a private event led to a national backlash and a mob trying to prevent them from leaving the country. This woman served as a four-term representative after a ﬁve-year exile in Hawaii, where she was forced to go after her husband F was overthrown in the People Power Revolution. For the point, name this woman who was convicted in 2018 in the anti-graft court of the Philippines.---A controversial theory about this ﬁlm holds that the protagonist’s work at a bathhouse is a metaphor for childhood prostitution. The director of this ﬁlm, which won an Academy Award in 2002, represented the rampant greed shown by people during the “Lost Decade” in his country by having a child’s parents turn into pigs. Near the end of this ﬁlm, the main character realizes that the dragon Haku A is the representation of a river in which she nearly drowned. Chihiro is transported to another world in, for the point, what ﬁlm by Hayao Miyazaki?---A man of this ancestry nicknamed “Silent Charlie” got New York’s delegation to ﬂip from Champ Clark at the 1912 Democratic National Convention. James Kelso failed to prevent violence from breaking out against a parade of people of this ancestry in the Orange Riots. One leader of this ancestry was R often depicted as a tiger by Thomas Nast. “Coﬃn notices” incriminated a secret society of people of this ancestry called the Molly Maguires. For the point, people of what ancestry led the political machine, Tammany Hall? Irish-Americans---This event was declared “null and void” in the Moscow Declarations which provided backing for the “ﬁrst victim theory.” This event failed to come to fruition in the July Putsch that included the assassination of Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss. This event began when Kurt Schusnigg of the Fatherland Front refused to allow Arthur Seyss-Inquart to take his place. This event was meant to advance the goals ¨ of lebensraum, and it led to the creation of Land Osterreich. For the point, name this event in which Adolf Hitler’s Wehrmacht secured Vienna.---The ﬁfth prime minister of what is now this country once declared, “We are seceding from Chaos.” The ﬁrst president of this country earned part of his name after going through a “poison test” from the kasa tree and later faced the Simba Rebellion. The ﬁrst prime minister of this nation worked with Belgian minister Walter Ganshiof and wrote an impromptu speech praising the “end to the humiliating slavery” T that began under Leopold II. Joseph Kasa-Vubu and Patrice Lumumba led, for the point, what country that was known as Zaire under Mobutu Sese Seko?---Merle Evans directed his band to play this song to alert personnel of the 1944 Hartford circus ﬁre. Auberon Waugh described this song, sung by British football fans as “Here We Go,” as the “national F anthem of the working classes.” Vladimir Horowitz wrote a diﬃcult transcription of this piece for piano on becoming a U.S. citizen. A piccolo solo highlights the trio section of this work which was adopted as the national march of the U.S. in 1987. For the point, name this piece, often performed on July 4th, that was composed by John Philip Sousa.---Responses to this event were meant “to divert your attention from the true question to be decided” according to the Tully letters. Participants in this event met at Braddock’s Field after Revolutionary War A oﬃcer James McFarlane was killed. William Findley tried to defuse this event by moving excise trials to local courts, and this event included an attack on John Neville’s home at Bower Hill. This revolt was put down by troops led by Lighthorse Harry Lee and George Washington. For the point, name this 1791 revolt against a tax on distilled goods.---Claude Erignac was killed in this region by militant Yvan Colonna. Theodor von Neuhoﬀ was chosen to be this region’s king by a man who was defeated at Ponte Novu. Independence leader’s Pasquale R Paoli had his memoirs recorded in James Boswell’s Account of this region. This island’s ﬂag depicts a Moor’s head wearing a white bandana. The House of Savoy consistently failed to take this island from French control despite itself controlling another island to the south. For the point, name this island where Napoleon was born, just north of Sardinia. Corsica---The government of this country introduced “Premium Friday” in 2017, a campaign to lower work hours. In this country, students who can not ﬁnd a job will often repeat a year due to the practice of “simultaneous recruiting of new graduates.” Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner claim that 98% of adoptions in this country are from companies adopting their adult executives which has contributed to this country’s population crisis. For the point, name this country where “salarymen” are often overworked, leading to a type of stress-caused death called karoshi.---This state, along with its southern neighbor, is the setting of a collection of novellas about the struggles of American Jews leaving their ethnic ghettos, written by Philip Roth and titled Goodbye, Columbus. Perhaps the best known novel set in this state was originally supposed to be titled Trimalchio at a ﬁctional location in this state. A character in that novel, Meyer Wolfsheim, is based on 1919 World Series ﬁxer, Arnold Rothstein. For the point, name this state, the setting of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The T Great Gatsby.---Footballer Alfredo Di St´efano was kidnapped in this country during the administration of president R´omulo Betancourt. Another president of this country supplied oil to Cuba in exchange for medics and was succeeded by a member of the MBR-200. A diplomat from this country, Juan Pablo P´erez Alfonso, created OPEC. The May, 2018 elections in this country have been contested, with Juan Guaid´o serving F as the acting president. For the point, name this nation, of which the UN still recognizes Nicol´as Maduro as president.---Description acceptable. After Bernardino de Mendoza was connected to one of these events, the Bond of Association was drafted with William Cecil’s help. Regnan in Excelsis, issued by Pope Pius V, excommunicated the target of these plots, one of which involved a Florentine banker and a Scottish Catholic bishop named John Lesley. Often carried out with Spanish aid, these plots included ones named A for Throckmorton and Ridolﬁ. For the point, name these plots to replace a certain monarch with Mary, Queen of Scots.---In this state, Sheriﬀ Willis McCall and his deputy probably murdered African-American defendant Sam Shepherd and almost killed Walter Irvin. Over 50 African-Americans were killed in this state’s Ocoee Massacre while much of the Black community at Rosewood in this state was razed in 1923. A tribe in this state was conﬁned to a reservation by the Treaty of Moultrie Creek in 1823. Sparking a movement to R pass the 1964 Civil Rights Act, Martin Luther King was arrested in, for the point, what state’s city of St. Augustine? Florida---A 2017 book by Thomas Mullaney explores the creation of a variant of this technology called the Double Pigeon. Hou-Kun Chow’s version of this technology used a rotating cylinder in an attempt to optimize it for Chinese use. Christopher Latham Sholes created a special layout for this technology, meant to reduce jamming, that was later adopted by E. Remington and Sons. The QWERTY layout was designed for, for the point, what machine that uses ink ribbons to allow the rapid creation of characters, the precursor to word processors?---The Tianzu society fought against this practice and was led by Alicia Little. The Jie Chan Zu Hui fought this practice for which “golden lotuses” were created. Cotton bandages with blood and herb mixture were used for this practice, which required “ﬂower bowl” and “horse-hoof” accessories. The Hakka did not practice this action which allowed some poorer women to marry into upper class families. This practice was challenged by Kang Youwei and the Foot Emancipation Society. For the point, name this T Chinese practice of decreasing foot size.---A ﬂour merchant named Jesse Hawley advocated that the path of this project was conceived by the “Author of Nature” as it would bring more business to the Finger Lakes. The ﬁrst section of this structure was a ﬁfteen mile stretch ending in the city of Utica on the Mohawk River. The man who championed this structure was governor of New York when it was completed in 1825, and this structure was sometimes F denigrated as “Clinton’s Folly.” For the point, name this structure that connects the Hudson River to a namesake Great Lake.---These people were aided by the Duke of Buckingham during the Anglo-French War due to Cardinal Richelieu’s siege of their stronghold of La Rochelle. Admiral of France, Gaspard II de Coligny, was one leader of these people who were targeted in the 1572 St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. The Edict of Fontainebleau resumed state persecution of these people, who had earlier been granted religious freedom A by Henry IV in the Edict of Nantes. For the point, name this group of John Calvin-inspired French Protestants.---This politician criticized the United Kingdom for pushing abolition in Texas in a letter written to British ambassador Richard Pakenham. This man resigned during his lame duck period after casting the most tie-breaking votes of any U.S. vice president. This man’s wife, Floride, turned women against Peggy Eaton in the Petticoat Aﬀair. This man argued in his “Exposition and Protest” that his state was able R to veto the Tariﬀ of 1828, beginning the Nulliﬁcation Crisis. For the point, name this vice president of Andrew Jackson from South Carolina. Calhoun---Holders of this position, led by Baldwin of Luxembourg, issued the Declaration of Rhense to separate themselves from the Pope. The King of Great Britain held this title after 1814 because of the personal union with Hanover. Ecclesiastical holders of this position included the Archbishops of Mainz and Cologne. The Golden Bull of 1356 formally assigned seven people to hold this position. For the point, name this position held by the Dukes of Saxony and Kings of Bohemia that gave them the power to choose the next Holy Roman Emperor.---
Battle of Antietam (accept Battle of Sharpsburg before mentioned)---Baruch (or Benedict) de Spinoza (accept Baruch (or Benedict) Espinosa) F---Lake Chad A---Louis R---Pope D Page 1 ---Samarkand (accept Markanda)---Seth---Marcus Garvey---Treaty of Tordesillas---William Lyon Mackenzie D Page 2 ---Sir Christopher Wren---Jesse Helms---Thrace---Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka---D Page 3 ---Second Great Awakening---Ivan III Vasilyevich (accept Ivan the Great before mentioned)---Imelda Marcos---Spirited Away (accept Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi, accept Sen and Chihiro’s Spiriting Away )---D Page 4 ---Anschluss (accept Nazi Germany’s annexation of Austria, accept merger of Austria and Germany and equivalents)---Democratic Republic of the Congo (accept DR(O)C; accept Congo-Kinshasa, do not accept or prompt on “Republic of the Congo;” do not accept or prompt “Zaire”)---“The Stars and Stripes Forever”---Whiskey Rebellion (accept Whiskey Revolt or Whiskey Insurrection) ´---D Page 5 ---Japan (Nippon-koku; accept Nihon-koku)---New York---Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela---Plots to assassinate Queen Elizabeth I of England (accept synonyms for “assassinate”)---D Page 6 ---Typewriter (accept daziji)---Foot binding (accept Min Nan)---Erie Canal---Huguenots---John C(aldwell) D Page 7 ---Prince-elector T F A R D Page 8---