C---False---88
This city was built as part of a program that promised “ﬁfty years’ progress in ﬁve.” The state of Guanabara was made obsolete by this city’s construction. A cathedral intended to be shaped like a crown of thorns was built in this city, which was built to resemble an airplane on a site in Goias state. Juscelino Kubitschek commissioned the building of, for the point, what planned city that was built to replace Rio de Janeiro as Brazil’s capital?---In his early career, this composer used Psalm 22 as the basis for his work “the Miserable Shall Eat,” which was composed for the Leipzig city council. This composer was asked to alter a theme composed by Frederick the Great and did so in the “Musical Oﬀering.” This man was commissioned by Keyserling, the count of Saxony, to compose a series of works to ease the count’s insomnia. For the point, name this German Baroque composer of the Goldberg Variations and the Brandenburg Concertos.---One leader of this country created the “Guulwaade” cult of personality; that leader of this country eﬀectively switched sides in the Cold War after the Soviet Union failed to support his invasion of a neighboring country in the Ogaden War. This country, which was once led by Siad Barre, was the site of the 1992 “Black Hawk Down” incident. For the point, name this African country where warlords brieﬂy captured the capital of Mogadishu.---Varian Fry led eﬀorts to rescue artists from this regime, which committed the Vel d’Hiv [vell deev] massacre. A ﬂeet was attacked at Mers el-Kebir to prevent it from falling into this regime’s hands. A motto translating as “Work, family, fatherland” was used by this regime, which was founded at a town formerly best known as a resort. Pierre Laval was prime minister of, for the point, what regime led by the former commander of French forces in World War I, Philippe Petain, that collaborated with the Nazis?---After this event, the USS Kirk escorted hundreds of ships to Subic Bay. The most famous photograph by Hugh Van Es was taken during this event. Ambassador Graham Martin helped coordinate this event, which began with the signal of “White Christmas” being played on the radio on April 30, 1975. Operation Frequent Wind was the codename of, for the point, what event in which US forces and civilians withdrew from the capital of South Vietnam? evacuation of Saigon (accept equivalents related to the fall---A military dictator in this country disrupted its economy when he changed its currency from base-10 to base-9 units; that leader was targeted by the 8888 demonstrations upon the death of a UN Secretary General from this country. The Panglong Accords were signed by the founder of this country, whose daughter leads its National League for Democracy party. Secretary General U Thant was a major opponent of this country’s dictator, Ne Win. For the point, name this country led by Aung San Suu Kyi [chee] whose Rohingya minority faces persecution.---This artist painted The Shelton with Sunspots and chronicled a 1928 view of the East River from the Thirtieth Story of the Shelton Hotel, which was then the tallest hotel in the world. This creator of Radiator Building painted landscapes of the “White Place” in New Mexico, where she moved shortly before the death of her husband, photographer Alfred Stieglitz. For the point, name this American painter of Cow’s Skull: Red, White, and Blue and many intimate close-ups of ﬂowers.---Antonio Maria Salviati is a vitally important historical source for this event, which was partially orchestrated by Albert di Gondi. Giorgio Vasari was commissioned to paint frescoes commemorating this event by Pope Gregory XIII. Maurevert [more-vair] failed to assassinate the son of Jeanne III before this event, where the Peace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye was broken. This event was masterminded by the House of Guise. Catherine de’ Medici instigated, for the point, what 1572 massacre of Huguenots that began on the eve of a namesake holy day?---In a bloody engagement during this war, forces under George Drummond defeated Jacob Brown and Winﬁeld Scott at the Battle of Lundy’s Lane. After forces under Robert Ross were victorious in this war’s Battle of Bladensburg, they proceeded to set ﬁres in the capital that a tornado legendarily put out. The most memorable American victory occurred after this war at the Battle of New Orleans. For the point name this “second war of independence” between the US and Britain, which began in a namesake year.---This author reworked the myth of Orpheus for the 20th century rock music scene in a novel about Ormus Cara, The Ground Beneath Her Feet. The sister of another of this author’s protagonists is a singer nicknamed “the brass monkey.” Saladin Chamcha survives a plane crash in a novel that earned this author a death sentence in a fatwa from Ayatollah Khomeini. For the point, name this author of The Satanic Verses and Midnight’s Children. Rushdie---In the Parallel Lives, Plutarch compared this ﬁgure with Fabius Maximus. This ruler’s father Xanthippus [zanth-ip-us] was victorious at the Battle of Mycale [MI-kuh-lee]. This ruler’s mother dreamed of giving birth to a lion before he was born. This man ostracized his political opponent Cimon and transported the treasury of the Delian League to his own city. For the point, name this Athenian statesman, who delivered a famous funeral oration during the Peloponnesian War. Pericles---This politician, who referred to the United States as a “tower of freedom” in a campaign speech, was mentored by wealthy newspaper publisher Thurlow Weed. During his tenure as Governor of New York, this man prosecuted Alexander McLeod for his involvement in the Caroline Aﬀair. This man survived an assassination attempt by Lewis Powell on April 14, 1865. For the point, name this Secretary of State under Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson who orchestrated the purchase of Alaska.---In this state, a perennial Congressional candidate publishes Access to Energy, a climate change- denying newsletter that claims prolonged exposure to radiation is good for you; that man, Art Robinson, has run against incumbent Congressman Peter DeFazio ﬁve times. This state is home to the United States’ ﬁrst openly bisexual governor, Kate Brown, and it is represented in the US Senate by Jeﬀ Merkley and Ron Wyden. For the point, name this West Coast state where Democrats represent cities such as Eugene and Portland.---This ethnic group fought the largely violence-free Dog Tax War against the British. This ethnic group signed a treaty that was originally drafted by James Busby and translated poorly by Henry Williams. George Grey fought a leader of these peoples named Hono Heke [hay-kay] after a ﬂagpole was cut down. After Europeans made contact with these people, they fought the Moriori people on the Chatham Islands during the Musket Wars. William Hobson compelled this indigenous group to sign the Treaty of Waitangi. For the point, name this native ethnic group of New Zealand.---This country’s rejection of a humiliating peace treaty with Nazi Germany is celebrated on its “No Day.” This country, which was ruled by the Regime of the Colonels, was the westernmost of the ﬁrst two countries to receive aid under the Truman Doctrine. The fascist regime of Ioannis Metaxas ruled this country before World War II, and the Enosis movement aimed to unify Cyprus with this country. For the point, name this country in which German paratroopers successfully captured the island of Crete.---Robert Bellarmine prominently cracked down on people who held this belief, which Francesco Ingoli attacked with eighteen objections in a notable letter. An advocate of this belief was ardently opposed by Tycho Brahe and legendarily declared “and yet it moves” while being arrested. The European originator of this view started a namesake “Revolution” that shattered the Ptolemaic model. Galileo and Copernicus held, for the point, what scientiﬁc theory that opposed geocentrism?---In the aftermath of this event, Anne Vaux was arrested and accused of harboring conspirators in her house. Henry Garnet was executed for his role in this event, which he knew about through information revealed in the confessional. Robert Catesby led the conspirators in this event, which was foiled after Guy Fawkes was discovered guarding barrels of explosives in a basement. For the point, name this event in which Catholics plotted to destroy the Houses of Parliament in 1605.---This man said that World War I began so that capitalists could gain land in Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism. In his later work, “What is to be Done?” this man argues for the creation of a revolutionary Vanguard. Upon this man’s return from exile in Geneva, he denounced the Provisional Government in his April Theses and then led Bolsheviks in the October Revolution to overthrow it. For the point, name this man who led the Russian Revolution of 1917 to become the ﬁrst Premier of the Soviet Union.---This event was supposedly discovered by an MI6 agent who was known as Tricycle, though his warnings were ignored by J. Edgar Hoover. The Dorn Report was set up to investigate this event, which led to accusations that Husband Kimmel and Walter Short had been unprepared. During this event, Hickam and Wheeler Fields were struck by dive bombers while Zeros sunk the Arizona on Battleship Row. For the point, name this 1941 surprise attack on a Hawaii naval base that brought the United States into World War II.---After the ﬁrst Sino-Japanese War, China was forced to recognize the independence of this region in the Treaty of Shimonoseki. Japan forced this region to become its protectorate with the Eulsa Treaty, and a member of this region’s “patriotic legion” attempted to assassinate Emperor Showa. Toyotomi Hideyoshi attempted to invade this region, but failed due to Admiral Yi Sun-sin. For the point, name this peninsula that was annexed by Japan in 1910 and contains the cities of Pyongyang and Seoul.---In this Biblical book, one character trades his birthright to his brother for a bowl of stew. In a much-publicized trial, Clarence Darrow interrogated William Jennings Bryan on apparent contradictions in this book. In this book, a character is sold into slavery by his brothers; that character was named Joseph. This book recounts the story of Noah’s survival of the ﬂood and the murder of Abel by his brother Cain. For the point, name this book which narrates the creation of the world, the ﬁrst book of the Bible. Genesis---The ﬁrst US Vice President to resign was from this state, whose customs houses in Beaufort and Georgetown were targeted as part of the Force Bill. A politician from this state railed against a perceived focus on manufacturing by writing an “Exposition and Protest.” This state’s response to the “Tariﬀ of Abominations” led to the Nulliﬁcation crisis. The opening shots of the Civil War took place at this state’s Fort Sumter. John C. Calhoun was from, for the point, what state where Union troops occupied Charleston?---France attempted to establish plantations for this good in the Niger Bend after Britain successfully did so in Sudan’s Gezira Triangle. A crash in prices for this good led Egypt’s debt to skyrocket in the 1860s, thus leading to a British protectorate over it. Irrigation for this good drained most of the Aral Sea in Uzbekistan, and a machine for processing this good was invented in America by Eli Whitney. For the point, name this trade good nicknamed “King” in the antebellum US south.---The southern portion of this mountain range is home to a dialect of English that uses “liketa” [“LIKE”-tah] as an adverb. This range contains the Black Mountain subrange, which is home to Mount Mitchell. In 1921, Benton MacKaye planned a trail running through this mountain range. King George III used this range as a dividing line between native lands and colonial America with the Proclamation of 1763. For the point, name this mountain range that stretches along much of the eastern US.---As a child, this man had a “toy army” consisting of playmates who eventually became the core of his Imperial Guard. After capturing Azov, this leader built his country’s ﬁrst naval base at Taganrog. This ruler put down a Cossack revolt sparked by bounty-hunting of fugitive serfs led by Kondraty Bulavin. This monarch’s reforms included a promotion system called the Table of Ranks and a beard tax. For the point, name this Tsar who westernized Russia at the start of the 18th century.---In a meeting responding to this action, Bob McNair controversially complained that they “can’t have inmates running the prison.” In 2017, after the College of the Ozarks announced a new policy responding to this action, the NAIA moved a men’s basketball championship game out of Branson. A meeting with former Green Beret Nate Boyer inspired this action, which has led to a collusion grievance due to the unusual lack of interest in a free agent quarterback. For the point, name this ongoing form of protest that [cap-er-nick]. was started in 2016 by Colin Kaepernick---During one battle, this warrior told the attacking side “Begone, or I will make you go” days before urging an attack on the bastille of St. Laurent. This soldier convinced Dauphin Charles to launch the March to Reims [rahnse], allowing his coronation as king. Because heresy only carried a death penalty if it was a repeat oﬀense, an English court charged this woman with cross-dressing. For the point, name this “Maid of Orleans” who was burned at the stake during the Hundred Years’ War.---This man purchased a newspaper operation from Samuel Keimer and founded a debate club known as the Junto. This man, whose son was the last Royalist Governor of New Jersey, used the pseudonym Richard Saunders to detail weather forecasts in colonial America and created a political cartoon depicting a snake cut into eight segments. Join, or Die was created by, for the point, what Pennsylvanian Founding Father and publisher of Poor Richard’s Almanac ?---A combatant in this war, Shiro Ishii, was controversially given amnesty in exchange for his scientiﬁc data. A combatant in this war, Hiroo Onoda, remained at his post for 27 years after it ended. The Japanese army enslaved Koreans as “comfort women” during this war, in which Japan fought a united front of Chinese Communists and Nationalists. For the point, name this war in which Japan surrendered after being attacked with two nuclear weapons.---Workers at a company in this industry were ﬁrst allowed to talk during lunch after a 1937 sit down strike that included intervention by John L. Lewis. Walter Reuther led a union in this industry, which fought security forces at the Battle of the Overpass. One company in this industry was owned by a man who ran the anti-Semitic newspaper Dearborn Independent. Conditions in this industry were improved by the Treaty of Detroit. For the point, name this American industry that includes companies like Chrysler and Ford.---This country’s founding fathers are known as the thirty-three Orientals, a reference to its colonial name, Banda Oriental. Like Brazil and Italy, this country underwent a civil war in which Giuseppe Garibaldi took part. A civil war between this country’s Colorados and Blancos was the cause of the War of the Triple Alliance. For the point, name this country where political factions frequently clashed in the capital of Montevideo. Uruguay---
Brasilia---Johann Sebastian Bach---Somalia---Vichy [vee-shee] France (accept the French State; accept Etat Francais; prompt on France and descriptions of Nazi-controlled France, including “the Nazis” alone; do not accept (Nazi) Germany)---US and/or South Vietnamese of Saigon; accept Operation Frequent Wind before mentioned) Page 1 ---Myanmar (accept Burma)---Georgia Totto O’Keeﬀe---St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre---War of 1812---Salman---Page 2 ---William Henry Seward---Oregon---Maori people (prompt on descriptions of indigenous New Zealanders before “New Zealand” is read)---Greece (accept Hellenic Republic; accept Hellas)---heliocentrism (accept descriptions of “the Sun is at the center of the solar system and/or universe”) Page 3 ---Gunpowder Plot---Vladimir Lenin (or Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov)---attack (or bombing, etc.) on Pearl Harbor---Korean Peninsula (do not accept North Korea or South Korea)---Book of Page 4 ---South Carolina---cotton---Appalachian Mountains (accept Great Smoky Mountains, or Great Smokies, until “Black Mountains” is read)---Peter the Great (or Peter I; prompt on Peter)---kneeling during the National Anthem (accept descriptive answers that mention both parts, such as “kneeling for the Star-Spangled Banner; prompt on partial answers, like “protesting the anthem” and “kneeling” alone) Page 5 ---Saint Joan of Arc (accept Jeanne d’Arc)---Benjamin Franklin---World War II (accept Second Sino-Japanese War)---automobile industry (accept anything related to the production and/or sales of cars, etc.) Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Page 6---