C---False---89
A central event in the formation of this group was the adoption of the Great Law of Peace. This group agreed to a series of treaties with the British collectively called the Covenant Chain, and this group fought against the French over control of the fur trade in the Beaver Wars. The Tuscarora joined this group in 1722, leading this group to adopt the nickname the Six Nations. Hiawatha was a leader of, for the point, what confederacy of northeastern Native American tribes?---This man’s admiral Piri Reis captured the Portuguese outposts of Muscat and Aden. Another of this man’s admirals, Hayreddin Barbarossa, docked in Toulon thanks to his alliance with Francis I of France. This man conquered much of Hungary after the Battle of Moh´acs [moh-hotch]. Though this ruler oversaw a failed Siege of Malta against the Knights Hospitaller and failed to capture Vienna in 1526, he expanded his empire to its greatest extent. For the point, name this Ottoman ruler, known as “the Magniﬁcent.”---Beveridge curves are used to model this concept, and an empirical relationship between this quantity and a country’s GDP is given by Okun’s law. An “inﬂation barrier” prevents the full eradication of this economic concept, a theory that developed after stagﬂation in the 1970s combined inﬂation and this phenomenon. The negative eﬀects of this concept were dealt with historically by the English Poor Laws. For the point, name this economic phenomenon in which people are unable to ﬁnd work.---In this city, attempts to train citizens in human resources management led to the creation of a fully-foreign-owned “Knowledge Village.” This city established free economic zones in the Internet City district and Jebel Ali Harbor. A hotel in this city is often misquoted as being rated seven stars and is shaped like a sail. The Burj Al Arab hotel and the world’s tallest building, the Burj Khalifa, are located in, for the point, what largest city of the United Arab Emirates?---In 1919, thousands of protesters marched to this location to oppose the 21 Demands and urge the return of territory in the Shandong peninsula. The May Fourth Movement gathered in this location, where a foam statue called the Goddess of Democracy was erected in 1989. Mao Zedong’s mausoleum is found in this location, which also includes his portrait adorning a large gate. For the point, name this public square where, in 1989, a lone man repeatedly blocked a column of tanks in Beijing. Tiananmen Square (prompt on Beijing before mentioned)---A man who served in this position under Jeﬀerson and Madison moved from his estate of Friendship Hill to New York City when he became the ﬁrst president of NYU. This cabinet position was held from 1801 to 1814 by Albert Gallatin. The ﬁrst holder of this position drafted the Report on Manufactures and lobbied for a tax on whiskey to help pay down the national debt. The US Mint is overseen by, for the point, what cabinet position ﬁrst held by Alexander Hamilton?---The central portion of this building was surrounded by the hekhal. An earthquake in 363 AD may have prevented a project to reconstruct this building, which was expanded under Herod the Great and destroyed in 70 AD by Roman soldiers. This building’s former location is now occupied by the Dome of the Rock and the Al-Aqsa Mosque. The Holy of Holies was contained in, for the point, what Jewish holy site in Jerusalem?---This colony’s government once defrauded natives of all the land a runner could reach in 36 hours, a treaty that became known as “the Walking Purchase.” This colony, which was regulated by a “charter of privileges,” purchased much of its land in treaties with the Lenape tribe. To pay a debt owed to the founder’s father, Charles II granted the royal charter creating this colony, whose name means “forest land.” For the point, name this colony, founded as a refuge for Quakers, whose cities included Philadelphia.---The philosopher Thomas Bradwardine held this position for two months shortly before his death. A holder of this position ﬂed to France after he was condemned at a trial held at Northampton Castle, prior to which he had refused to sign the Constitutions of Clarendon. Stephen Langton feuded with King John while he held this position. In 1170, King Henry II ordered the murder of the holder of this position. For the point, name this English religious position held by Thomas Becket.---In this country, the Berkut police force was disbanded after a violent suppression of the “Heavenly Hundred” protesters. Minor skirmishes continue to plague this country’s region of Donbass. This country’s Independence Square was the site of the Euromaidan protests, part of a 2014 revolution that ousted Viktor Yanukovych. During the ensuing instability, this country had a Black Sea territory annexed by Vladimir Putin. For the point, name this country that lost the Crimea to neighboring Russia and is governed from Kiev. Ukraine---The GRUNK brieﬂy held power in this nation, where intellectuals and other “New People” were executed during “Year Zero.” This country, which was ruled by King Sihanouk until his 1970 overthrow, was the site of “killing ﬁelds” during a period when it was known as Democratic Kampuchea and its Communist Party carried out purges under the direction of Pol Pot. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country once ruled by the Khmer Rouge. Cambodia (accept Democratic Kampuchea until “Year Zero” is read)---This composer’s second collaboration with librettist Lorenzo da Ponte had its “Champagne Aria” bowdlerized by Imperial censors. For another opera by this man, Da Ponte preemptively removed an anti-nobility speech from the original Pierre Beaumarchais play; in that opera, Susanna marries Count Almaviva’s servant. For the point, name this Austrian composer of Don Giovanni and The Marriage of Figaro who also wrote the serenade Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.---In this city, baseball player Willie Horton tried to quell a riot with a speech delivered from the rooftop of a car. Several people were killed near the Algiers Motel in this city during the 1967 Twelfth Street Riot, which prompted governor George Romney to dispatch the National Guard to this city. A ﬁve-dollar-a-day wage was oﬀered to laborers in this city by Henry Ford. For the point, name this Michigan city where the big three American automakers are headquartered.---In its eﬀort to ﬁght this disease, the NFIP built a facility to mass produce HeLa cells. Albert Sabin developed both an oral vaccine for this disease and an intense rivalry with another vaccine inventor, who asked “Could you patent the sun?” to explain why he didn’t seek proﬁts. The March of Dimes was founded to ﬁght this disease in 1938. Jonas Salk developed a vaccine for, for the point, what mostly eradicated disease that causes muscle weakness and aﬄicted Franklin Roosevelt?---This world leader adopted the Sinatra Doctrine, allowing allied nations to “choose their own way.” This leader faced a coup from the hardline Gang of Eight, though it was thwarted when Boris Yeltsin gave a speech from atop a tank. This man’s reforming policies of glasnost and perestroika helped speed up the breakup of his country. For the point, name this ﬁnal leader of the Soviet Union.---Early in this war, Fort Budapest managed to stay out of enemy hands despite an overwhelming attack in Operation Badr. Shuttle diplomacy initiated by Henry Kissinger helped negotiate an end to this war, leading its winner to withdraw to the Purple Line. This war, which led to the downfall of Golda Meir’s government, began when an Arab alliance breached the Bar-Lev line with a surprise attack. For the point, name this 1973 war in which Israel was attacked on the Jewish Day of Atonement.---This novel’s author described it as “neither an accusation nor a confession.” In this novel, Tjaden [t’yah-den] gets revenge on Himmelstoss, and another character feels remorse at the stabbing of G´erard Duval, having returned to the army from seventeen days of leave to see his family. As Fredrich Mu¨ller [boy-mar]. For the point, name dies, he gives Kemmerich’s boots to this novel’s protagonist, Paul Bau¨mer this Erich Maria Remarque novel about life in the German trenches of World War I.---Popular uprisings in this city began after the student Jan Palach [yan pahl-ahk], a free speech protester, set himself on ﬁre in Wenceslas Square. During a revolution centered in this city, Antonin Novotny was replaced by the moderate Alexander Dubcek [doob-check], whose attempt to create “socialism with a human face” was crushed by a Soviet invasion. A period of liberalization known as this city’s “Spring” took place in, for the point, what capital of Czechoslovakia?---During this war, the CIA tortured and killed insurgents in the Phoenix Program. Creighton Abrams replaced William Westmoreland as general in this war, in which “tunnel rats” fought in caves and navy pilot John McCain participated in bombing runs during Operation Rolling Thunder. Chemical weapons like Agent Orange were used in, for the point, what Southeast Asian war that ended with Saigon being renamed Ho Chi Minh City?---This leader chaired a conference at which his country acquired New Guinea and Namibia. This leader edited the Ems Dispatch, triggering a war in which this leader’s country captured Napoleon III. This leader’s Minister of Education, Adalbert Falk, established state control of education via the May Laws, part of his anti-Catholic Kulturkampf. The “great questions of the time” would be answered by “blood and iron” according to, for the point, what Iron Chancellor of Prussia?---At this structure’s opening ceremony, George Nares’s Newport controversially surged past the imperial Eagle. A closure of this structure caused the Yellow Fleet to be trapped for eight years. Lester Pearson was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for mediating a 1956 conﬂict in which British and French paratroopers tried to reclaim it from Gamal Abdel Nasser, who had nationalized it. For the point, name this Egyptian waterway that linked the Mediterranean to the Red Sea.---After a routine traﬃc stop in this city in 2017, Jocques Clemmons was shot by a police oﬃcer, leading to protests against its ﬁrst female mayor, Megan Barry. This port on the Cumberland River was the northern terminus of the Natchez Trace and was the ﬁrst state capital to fall to the Union in the Civil War. This city contains a full-scale replica of the Parthenon, as well as Vanderbilt University. For the point, name this center of country music and capital of Tennessee.---This person got in trouble with the National Labor Union after she supported using female strikebreakers during a printers’ strike. Ward Hunt ﬁned this woman a hundred dollars for illegally casting a vote in the 1872 election in Rochester. Four years earlier, this woman co-founded The Revolution with Elizabeth Cady Stanton to advocate for women’s suﬀrage. For the point, name this American suﬀragette whose portrait once appeared on the dollar coin. Anthony---This man’s party was the target of the Aventine Secession after he changed his country’s voting system with the Acerbo [uh-chair-bow] Law. After this man was rescued by Otto Skorzeny, he led the Republic of Salo, which relied on German forces to control the northern half of a country as Victor Emmanuel III regained power from this man in the south. For the point, name this fascist dictator who took power after his militia, called the Blackshirts, marched on Rome in 1922.---In 2004, an Army Ranger who had given up a career in this sport was killed by friendly ﬁre in Afghanistan. In addition to Pat Tillman, this sport was played professionally by Dave Duerson, Junior Seau, and Aaron Hernandez, each of whom were posthumously diagnosed with CTE, a form of chronic brain damage that results from numerous head injuries. For the point, name this sport whose professional league has controversially denied a link between brain damage and concussions received while playing positions like linebacker and quarterback.---This politician was ridiculed for claiming “there is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe” in a debate. This politician, who encouraged ﬁscal responsibility to combat inﬂation in the Whip Inﬂation Now campaign, signed the Helsinki Accords to improve relations with communist Europe. This president declared “our long national nightmare is over” after taking oﬃce in 1974. For the point, name this US president who pardoned his predecessor, Richard Nixon.---This city was home to a lower-class district known as the Subura. Soldiers raised in this city were trained on a large ﬁeld known as the Campus Martius, and its Temple of Janus only opened its doors in times of war. This city’s sewer, the Cloaca Maxima, drained a swamp that became the site of the ﬁrst forum. This city was situated on seven hills and was legendarily founded by Romulus and Remus. For the point, name this city on the Tiber River, the namesake of an Italian empire.---Gouverneur Morris wrote this passage, which was cited in Casement v. Squier to justify the lack of a jury. Courts have defended the practice of eminent domain by citing this text’s call to “promote the general Welfare.” This text also calls to “provide for the common defence” and “establish Justice” as methods to “form a more perfect Union.” For the point, name this one-sentence text that begins “We the People of the United States” and introduces the US Constitution. Preamble to the US Constitution (accept preamble alone after “Constitution” is read;---A leader of this country established its Opportunities assistance program and sharply devalued its currency when he became president in December 1994. Factories called maquiladoras [mah-kee-lah-dor-uhs] were established in this country during the rule of president Ernesto Zedillo. A rebel in this country adopted the name Subcomandante Marcos and began the Zapatista insurgency in 1994. For the point, name this country that is a member of NAFTA with its two northern neighbors. Mexico (or the United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos)---Joseph-Marie Jacquard names a type of this material with complex designs, as well as the machine used for producing it. Another highly decorative type of this material, often using ﬂoral patterns, is named for Damascus. Lowell was the site of several strikes of primarily female workers in this industry. For the point, name this kind of material often produced by weaving the ﬁbers from linen or wool.---An early oﬀensive in this battle was Joseph Hooker’s assault on the Dunker Church, which led to heavy ﬁghting in Miller’s Cornﬁeld. A Union objective in the southern part of this battle was nicknamed Burnside’s Bridge. Fighting over the Sunken Road led to a stalemate in this battle, which was followed by Robert Lee’s withdrawal of the Confederate army from Maryland. For the point, name this Civil War battle with the highest one-day death toll in American history.---
Iroquois Confederacy (or Iroquois League; accept Five Nations and Six Nations before “Six Nations” is mentioned)---Suleiman the Magniﬁcent (or Suleiman I)---unemployment rate (accept descriptive answers relating to job vacancy)---Dubai---Page 1 ---Secretary of the Treasury---Holy Temple (accept First Temple or Second Temple or Solomon’s Temple)---Pennsylvania (Colony or Province)---Archbishop of Canterbury------Page 2 ---Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart---Detroit---poliomyelitis---Mikhail Gorbachev---Yom Kippur War (or the 1973 Arab-Israeli War; accept the Ramadan War; accept the October War)---All Quiet on the Western Front (accept Im Westen nichts Neues) Page 3 ---Prague (accept Prague Spring)---Vietnam War---Otto von Bismarck---Suez Canal---Nashville---Susan B. Page 4 ---Benito Mussolini (prompt on Il Duce)---(American or gridiron) football---Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr. (accept Leslie Lynch King, Jr.)---Rome---prompt on US Constitution until it is read)---Page 5 ---cloth or fabric or textiles (accept clothing; prompt on cotton, linen, wool or other speciﬁc ﬁbers used in the industry) Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Battle of Antietam (accept Battle of Sharpsburg) Page 6---