C---False---91
This man commissioned the Hands of Victory arch formed by two crossing swords. During this man’s reign, he hired a nurse and calligrapher to write a copy of the Qu’ran with 27 liters of his own blood to be stored in a mosque named after the Mother of All Battles, a phrase this dictator used to describe a conﬂict triggered by his invasion of Kuwait. For the point, name this dictator deposed in the 2003 Iraq War.---One member of this group, Pelagius, founded the Kingdom of Asturias on the Iberian peninsula. After the 507 AD Battle of Vouill´e [voo-yay], this group was pushed out of Gaul by Clovis and the Franks. This group accelerated the fall of Rome by killing Emperor Valens at Adrianople in 378. For the point, name this Germanic group, led by Alaric and Theodoric in the ﬁfth century CE, the western group of the two main divisions of Goths.---Isaac Kidd was killed on the bridge of this ship. Fires on the nearby repair ship Vestal were blown out by a shockwave caused when an ammunition magazine detonated on this ship. “Black tears” continue to seep from this ship, which was not salvaged after an explosion that killed 1,177 men. For the point, name this battleship sunk during the Pearl Harbor attacks, commemorated by a ﬂoating war memorial.---One play about this war concerns a power struggle between a sausage-seller and Cleon, who supported this war. Another play about this war, written after the disastrous Sicilian Expedition, describes a group of women taking an oath around a bowl full of wine. Those women refuse to have sex with their husbands unless they agree to end this war. Aristophanes’ 411 BC play Lysistrata protested, for the point, what war between Athens and Sparta?---In this battle, Francis Randall’s heart attack caused the only fatality for the winning side. It began when Charles Gridley was told “you may ﬁre when ready,” and it ended with the near total destruction of the Spanish ﬂeet, crippling them in the Paciﬁc theater of the Spanish-American War. For the point, name this naval battle fought near the capital of the Philippines. Manila Bay---Charles de Bourbon was said to have been shot by Benvenuto Cellini while attempting to perform this action, which was resisted from the Castel Sant’Angelo. One leader is said to have proclaimed “vae victis” while measuring tribute after performing this action, which occurred after the Battle of the Allia. One of these actions led to the deposition of Romulus Augustulus. For the point, name this action, performed by troops under Brennus, Alaric, and Odoacer, which involved partially destroying a city in central Italy.---During this war, the Duc of Enghein won the second Battle of Nordlingen and defeated a Spanish invasion at the Battle of Rocroi. One side in this war won the Battle of Lutzen despite the death of their king, who had earlier defeated Count von Tilly at the Battle of Breitenfeld. This war started when two ambassadors were literally thrown out of Prague Castle. Gustavus Adolphus died in, for the point, what war, largely between Protestant and Catholic alliances, ended by the Treaty of Westphalia?---This President ordered the dishonorable discharge of 167 innocent black soldiers in the Brownsville Aﬀair. Conservation of the environment, control of corporations, and consumer protection were the “three C’s” of this President’s Square Deal. For the point, name this president who succeeded William McKinley and unsuccessfully ran for a third term as a Bull Moose candidate.---In a siege of this city, Simon bar Giora and John of Giscala were captured. That siege of this city is commemorated by Rome’s Temple of Peace and the Arch of Titus, and is mourned on Tisha B’Av. Another siege of this city by Pompey the Great resulted in Roman conquering of Judea. For the point, name this city where the First and Second Temples on Temple Mount were destroyed.---This man decreed that his family would be heirs to the uniﬁed Low Countries in a 1549 pragmatic sanction. Adrian of Utrecht served as regent for this ruler during the Revolt of the Comuneros. This ruler agreed to the Peace of Augsburg with the Schmalkaldic League, whom this ruler defeated at the Battle of Muhlberg. This ruler sponsored Ferdinand Magellan’s expeditions and fathered Philip II of Spain. For the point, name this Holy Roman Emperor who was also the King of Spain.---The opening of this piece quotes the hymn “Troparion of the Holy Cross.” This piece, popularized in America by Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops, commemorates the Battle of Borodino and culminates with a rendition of “God Save the Tsar.” It represents Napoleon’s invading army with “La Marsellaise” [lah MAR-sigh-ehz] and includes sixteen artillery blasts in the score. For the point, what overture by Peter Tchaikovsky is often played on July 4th and includes cannon ﬁre?---In this country, the Lion of Al-lat was destroyed in May 2015. One leader of this country is opposed by the FSA and the Islamic Front. Palmyra is controlled by ISIS in this country, where Bashar al-Assad has been opposed by rebels since 2011. For the point, name this middle eastern country embattled by civil war in cities like Aleppo and its capital, Damascus.---On the right side of one of this artist’s paintings, a man in a turban rides a black horse rearing over a group of anguished victims of the Greek War of Independence. In another work celebrating the July Revolution, this artist painted a boy wielding two pistols to the right of a bare-breasted woman waving the tri-color. For the point, name this painter of The Massacre at Chios and Liberty Leading the People.---This politician responded to Samuel Seabury’s criticism of the First Continental Congress by writing A Full Vindication of the Measures of Congress. His Assumption Act was passed after compromising to locate a nation’s capital on the Potomac River and was inﬂuenced by his First Report on Public Credit. He debated with Thomas Jeﬀerson over the Necessary and Proper Clause that later allowed the formation of the First Bank of the United States. For the point, name this ﬁrst U.S. Secretary of the Treasury.---This battle featured the 1077th Anti-Aircraft Regiment, which was composed entirely of women, and a stubborn defense of Pavlov’s House. Georgy Zhukov implemented a plan known as Operation Uranus to encircle Friedrich Paulus’s German 6th Army during this battle. The Nazi forces in this battle sought to gain access to the oil ﬁelds near the Volga River. For the point, name this World War II battle that served as a turning point for the USSR.---The Brent Blend is one classiﬁcation of this commodity, which is labeled “sweet” if it has low sulfur concentration. Benon Sevan led the Australian Wheat Board’s program that allowed the sale of this commodity to Saddam Hussein’s government, which received kickbacks and avoided sanctions by selling it to that program. For the point, name this commodity, a fossil fuel whose crude form is drilled and reﬁned to create gasoline.---Legend says that this battle’s ﬁrst cannonball landed on a British oﬃcers’ dining table. This battle included a brief diversionary attack on the Fusiliers launched by Rochambeau [roh-SHAM-boh] before the Americans assaulted Redoubt 10. Another legend says that the tune “The World Turned Upside Down” was played by the losing side as Lord Cornwallis surrendered to George Washington. For the point, name this battle that eﬀectively ended the American Revolution. Yorktown---This actor has played the founder of Stratton Oakmont, as well as the director of Outlaw, whose company that built the Spruce Goose. This actor, who played Howard Hughes in The Aviator, played a poor artist in a James Cameron ﬁlm about a 1912 naval disaster. For the point, name this actor who was not Oscar-nominated for his performance in Baz Luhrmann’s 2013 adaptation of The Great Gatsby, nor for playing Jack Dawson opposite Kate Winslet in Titanic.---Defense Department requests to perform imaging prior to this event were denied, as concern over the reinforced carbon-carbon panels was dismissed. The ﬁrst reported issue was when hydraulic sensors went “oﬀ-scale low;” shortly after that, Doppler radar picked up a debris trail over Texas and Arkansas. This event was triggered when a piece of foam broke oﬀ the external tank and damaged the left wing, leading to the deaths of seven astronauts. For the point, name this 2003 disaster, the second loss of a Space Shuttle, after which the program was discontinued.---An authoritative school of thought from this nation argued that personal freedom comes second to the law. The Five Classics, including the Spring and Autumn Annals, were written in this nation by a thinker who promoted virtues like ﬁlial piety and a form of altruism called Ren in the Analects. Confucianism developed in, for the point, what nation where legalism was practiced during the Qin [CHIN] dynasty?---One ruler of this modern day country married Taytu Betul after succeeding Yohannes IV. With Liberia, it was the only African country not to be colonized, having defended itself at Adowa against Italian forces. The Solomonic dynasty ruled, for the point, what country, once known as Abyssinia, which was led by Menelik II from Addis Ababa?---The 19th century Auburn system required silence in these institutions. Linda Gilbert built libraries in these institutions, which were the original subject of a study by Gustave de Beaumont and Alexis de Tocqueville. Jeremy Bentham proposed a design for one of these called the Panopticon, which allows a watchmen to see all of the individuals inside it. For the point, name these institutions that house criminals.---This book notes that only man has acquired the “signiﬁcant power to alter the nature of the world” in describing the “Obligation to Endure.” “A strange blight crept over” a hypothetical town in this work’s opening, “A Fable for Tomorrow.” The EPA was formed after public reaction to this book’s description of the eﬀects of DDT and other pesticides. For the point, name this 1962 environmentalist text by Rachel Carson. Silent Spring---This event allegedly was caused by the conjoining of Saturn, Mars, and Jupiter under the sign of Aquarius and a solar eclipse on the same day. Alfonso XI of Castile was the only monarch to be killed by this event, which also claimed the life of Princess Joan of England. This event was spread when sailors from Genoa ﬂed the siege of Kaﬀa. This event was spread by rats’ ﬂeas which spread the bacteria Yersina pestis. For the point, name this 1300’s epidemic that killed a third of all people in Europe.---The Green Bank device of this type is at the center of the U.S. National Radio Quiet Zone. The Gregorian and Cassegrain reﬂector types were improvements on the ﬁrst known one of these devices, designed by Hans Lippershey. A simple reﬂecting type of these instruments using two mirrors was developed by and named for Isaac Newton. Galileo used one of these of his own design to discover the four largest moons of Jupiter. for the point, name these devices used for remote viewing of celestial objects.---Extinct species once found on this island include the giant fossa and elephant birds, though it is still home to a group of primates closely related to lorises. Until the French colonized it in 1897, it was ruled by the Merina Kingdom, a highland group of the Malagasy people. For the point, name this island habitat of ring-tailed lemurs, an African island country with capital Antananarivo.---The Kapp Putsch and Spartacist Revolt targeted this government, which signed the Treaty of Rapallo with the Soviet Union. A leader who eventually ended this government gained power with the Reichstag Fire Decree and Paul von Hindenburg’s Enabling Act. Earlier, the Dawes Plan was created to help this government recover from massive hyperinﬂation after defaulting from payments required from the Treaty of Versailles. For the point, name this post-World War I German government that was replaced by the Third Reich under Adolf Hitler.---Attempts to centralize the meat industry in this city were protested by butchers using the 14th Amendment, resulting in the Slaughterhouse Cases. Michael Brown was told “you’re doing one heck of a job” while being incompetent in this city. Edward Pakenham was killed in a battle fought in this city after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent; that battle was a victory for Andrew Jackson. For the point, name this city, which was devastated by Hurricane Katrina and is the largest in Louisiana. New Orleans---In this battle, Cynaegirus [ky-nee-gir-us] unsuccessfully tried to pull an enemy trireme back to shore, only for his hand to be cut oﬀ. Eretria had previously been captured by the losing side in this battle, which was led by Datis and Artaphernes [ar-ta-FAIR-nees]. The tyrant Hippias was present at this battle, [fay-uh-DIP-ih-dees] carried the information of this Greek victory to Athens. after which Pheidippides For the point, name ancient battle that saw Miltiades [mill-TIE-uh-dees] lead Athenian forces to victory against an invasion force sent by Darius the Great.---The Chilam Balam manuscripts note that the the four Bacabs survived this event, and Yu the Great survived one of these events with the help of a giant tortoise. After surviving one of these events, Pyrrha and Deucalion created a new race of humans by throwing stones over their shoulders. One ﬁgure discovered that this event had ended after a dove returned holding an olive branch. For the point, name these cataclysmic events, one of which Noah built an ark to avoid.---This man married Charlotte of Belgium, who later changed her name to Carlota. This monarch’s alliance with a country’s leader was inﬂuenced by his dismissal as Viceroy of Lombardy- Venetia by his brother Franz-Josef I. A Manet painting that depicted the execution of this leader was inﬂuenced by Francisco Goya’s Third of May, 1808. Napoleon III urged this man to claim the throne of a foreign nation that was held by Benito Juarez. For the point, name this Austrian who was King of Mexico.---
Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti---Visigoths (prompt on “Goths” before mentioned; prompt on barbarians; prompt on Germans before mentioned)---USS Arizona---Peloponnesian War---Battle of Page 1 ---sacking Rome (prompt on “capturing Rome”)---Thirty Years War---Theodore (or Teddy) Roosevelt---Jerusalem---Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (or Charles I of Spain or Carlos I of Spain, prompt on “Charles”)---The 1812 Overture or The Year 1812 Page 2 ---Syria---(Ferdinand Victor) Eugene Delacroix [oo-ZHEN dell-ah-QUA]---Alexander Hamilton---Battle of Stalingrad---crude oil (accept descriptors; do not accept natural gas)---Battle of Page 3 ---Leonardo DiCaprio---Space Shuttle Columbia disaster (prompt on Columbia alone)---People’s Republic of China---Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia---prisons (accept equivalents like jails)---Page 4 ---Black Death (or Black Plague or Bubonic Plague)---telescope (accept radio telescope until “improvements”)---Republic of Madagascar---Weimar Republic (prompt on “Germany”, do not accept “West Germany” or “East Germany” or “German Empire”)------Battle of Marathon Page 5 ---great ﬂoods (or deluge, accept any additional information) Extra Question Only read if moderator botches a question.---Maximilian I of Mexico Page 6---