Nats---False---92
This movement successfully recruited the Muslim majority Basmachi Movement to temporarily seize control of the Ferghana Valley region. The Japanese openly supported an eastern leader of this movement, Grigory Semyonov, who attempted to create an independent state in Transbaikal. A period of "terror" named for this faction included violence ordered by leader Anton Denikin, including renewed pogroms against Jews in Ukraine. For the point, name this loose confederation of anti-communists which lost the Russian Civil War to the Red Bolsheviks.---While investigating at the site of this event, U.S. Army officer James Henry Carleton and his men built a cairn for this event's victims. John D. Lee, a local leader in the Nauvoo [[NAW-voo]] Legion, was the only one convicted for this atrocity. During this event, a militia dressed up as Paiute [[PAI-yoot]] Indians killed members of the Baker-Fancher wagon train. For the point, name this massacre, partly brought about by hysteria surrounding the impending Utah War, where a Mormon militia killed American settlers.---Andrew Breeze claims that one commander at this battle was killed by forces from Rheged. Sanddef Pryd Angel was listed as surviving this battle due to his angelic appearance. Constantine succeeded to the throne after this battle, which may have been fought along Hadrian’s Wall in the 6th century. The tale Culhwch [[KULL-ook]] and Olwen mentions this battle, in which one mortally wounded participant was legendarily taken to the island of Avalon. Mordred fought his father at, for the point, what possibly historical battle at which King Arthur was supposedly killed?---After questioning Zechariah Symmes [[SIMS]], this figure’s membership into an organization was delayed by a week. Francis Marbury was the father of this figure and Katherine Scott, the first known Quaker convert in the U.S. This figure argued that John Wheelwright wrongly emphasized an interpretation of the covenant of works in the Antinomian Controversy. John Winthrop presided over a trial of this woman, leading Roger Williams to support her founding of Portsmouth, Rhode Island. For the point, name this Puritan preacher who was banished from the Massachusetts Bay Colony.---Sir Edward Grey, a member of the H.H. Asquith cabinet, attempted to mediate this "crisis" until he was blocked by Wilhelm II. Hungarian advisor István Tisza argued a Russian intervention was to occur if this ultimatum, which requested a full occupation of Serbia, was done. For the point, name this "Crisis" named for a summer month in the prelude to World War One, sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by Gavrilo Princip.---After his most notable defeat, this man's head was sent to Marbod, the leader of the Marcomanni, who sent it back to Rome. After abandoning a plan to leave for Moguntiacum [[moe-goon-tee-AH-kum]], this man was warned by Segestes not to trust news of a revolt that resulted in his forces marching east of modern-day Osnabrück. Augustus supposedly lost his composure after this man’s defeat, prompting him to cry out for this man to “give me back my legions.” For the point, name this Roman politician and general who was ambushed and defeated in detail by Germans under Arminius at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest.---Robert McCard was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for action at this battle, where particularly high casualties around a region of Mount Tapotchau led it to be named “Purple Heart Ridge.” Part of Operation Forager, this battle saw a number of civilians jump to their death at Banzai Cliff. The fleet that engaged in this battle departed on June 5th, 1944, inspiring its nickname of “Pacific D-Day." Hideki Tojo resigned after this battle that claimed over 50,000 lives. For the point, name this Pacific World War Two battle fought in the Mariana Islands.---Catherine Holmes wrote a book about "[this man] and the Governance of Empire." Because they lacked local political loyalties, a unit created by this man was composed of warriors from Scandinavia. After landing at Chrysopolis, this leader's Varangian Guard attacked the forces of Bardas Phokas. This man signed a peace treaty with the Fatimid Caliphate in the year 1000. A tactic of blinding prisoners inspired the nickname of this emperor. For the point, name this Byzantine ruler nicknamed “the Bulgar-Slayer.”---A speech often attributed to Andocides [[an-DAH-kih-deez]] attacked this man with claims that he fathered a child with a slave from Melos. In one work, this man is compared to a satyr after showing up drunk to a party. Following the arrival of a delegation from Segesta, this man called for a more than two-fold increase in the number of ships for one campaign. In Plato’s Symposium, Socrates speaks with this opponent of Nicias [[neh-KAY- es]] who supported an attack on Syracuse. For the point, name this Athenian statesman and proponent of the Sicilian Expedition.---This ruler led his armies to defeat Galdan Boshugtu Khan at the Battle of Jao Modo. This ruler's general Shi Lang conquered the Tungning Kingdom following the Battle of Penghu, ending the rule of the House of Koxinga [[kok-SING-ah]]. This ruler expelled all Jesuit missionaries after the Catholic Church forbade Christians from performing ancestor rites. This emperor put down Wu Sangui's Revolt of the Three Feudatories. For the point, name this grandfather of the Qianlong [[CHEE-ahn-LONG]] Emperor, the longest-reigning Qing Dynasty ruler.---Discontent with this region’s Unitary Law led over 700,000 people to participate in its 1960-61 "Strike of the Century." Since the 14th century, inhabitants of this region's city of Binche [[BAHNSH]] wear clown-like wax masks for an annual carnival. A collaborationist legion named for inhabitants of this region was commanded by Leon Degrelle of the Rexist Movement. Liège is found in this region, where the majority speaks a non-Dutch language, unlike Flanders. For the point, name this French-speaking portion of Belgium.---This artform inspired James McNeil Whistler to paint Nocturne: Blue and Gold – Old Battersea Bridge. This artistic medium was used to depict Three Famous Beauties, an 18th century Bijin-ga work of renowned teahouse waitresses. This artform often focused on Meisho [[meh-ee-SHOW]], or "Famous Views," including a series which depicts Fifty-Three Stations leading to the capital of Edo. Hiroshige and Hokusai were masters in, for the point, what style of woodblock print art native to Japan that translates to "pictures of the floating world"?---The tsunami created by this event eliminated much of a local Mi'kmaq settlement in Tuft's Cove, and rail engineer Vince Coleman saved hundreds of people by signaling to a passenger train to halt outside of this event's blast zone. Following a water-borne collision, this disaster occurred after a fire broke out on the SS Mont Blanc, a ship with munitions aboard. Over 2,000 Canadians died in, for the point, what man-made blast which occurred in Nova Scotia in 1917?---At the behest of Frederic Remington, one of this tribe's members, a skilled artist named Kicking Bear painted the Battle of Greasy Grass from memory for the Smithsonian. Sculptor James Earle Fraser used a diplomat from this tribe, Iron Tail, to model for the first Buffalo Nickels commissioned in 1913. The Cheyenne and Arapaho accompanied, for the point, what tribe led by Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull to victory at the Battle of Little Bighorn?---One side in this war was assisted by Jules Brunet [[broo-NEH]] and Andre Cazeneuve [[kah-zeh-NUHV]] at the Battle of Toba-Fushimi, but they fled after this war with Admiral Enomoto Takeaki [[TAH-keh-AH-kee]] and established the short-lived Republic of Ezo. The ironclad Kotetsu participated at the Battle of Hakodate [[hah-koh-DAH-teh]] in the last stand of this war, after which imperial rule was fully established. For the point, name this civil war in Japan which ended the Tokugawa Shogunate and ushered in the Meiji [[MAY-jee]] Restoration.---With assistance from Islamic scholars, this ruler wrote the early economic and political treatise Fatawa 'Alamgiri, which established inheritance laws in his realm. This man's military contained the multi-barrel cannon Ibrahim Rauzar, and his soldiers served as the model for the future sepoy soldiers of the mid-18th century. This son of Shah Jahan, who imprisoned his father in Agra, fought a deadly war with the newly emerging Maratha Empire. For the point, name this emperor who brought the Mughal Empire to its greatest extent.---One of this company's founders is the namesake of a business school attended by Warren Buffett. In 1941, FDR was present at the launch of the SS Patrick Henry from a Baltimore shipyard owned by this company, which was co-founded by Joseph Wharton. Capacity issues prompted this company to hire consultant Frederick Taylor, who applied his scientific management principles. In the early 20th century, this company was led by Charles M. Schwab. For the point, name this shipbuilding and steel magnate established in a namesake Pennsylvania city.---At the beginning of this musical work, the hymn “O Lord, Save Thy People” is played by a small string ensemble. This piece’s composer eventually came to loathe it, saying it was “very loud and noisy... with no artistic merits.” The finale of this work, which quotes the Republican anthem “La Marseillaise” [[luh mar-say-EZ]], calls for the clanging of bells and firing of cannons. For the point, name this concert piece by Pyotr Tchaikovsky that commemorates the Russian defeat of Napoleon in a namesake year.---This man won a lottery and purchased his freedom around the age of thirty-two. Following his capture by authorities, this man and five others were rapidly judged guilty, sentenced to death, and hung on July 2, 1822. This man was arrested for allegedly planning a revolt which would have led to the deaths of all slaveholders in Charleston, South Carolina. For the point, name this Black carpenter who was born in the Virgin Islands with the name Telemaque [[TEH-leh-mahk]].---A poem about a participant in this event features the line "A pal's last need is a thing to heed." That work was set near Lake Laberge by its author Robert Service. “The Cremation of Sam McGee” is set during this event, as is a work in which a character in the service of Judge Miller is abducted and shipped to Seattle where he learns the “law of club and fang." That character, Buck, is part of a sled team headed for this event in The Call of the Wild. For the point, name this prospecting event that took place in the Yukon.---In 1906, this businessman led a campaign in support of the Pure Food and Drug Act. This man's parents were born in Germany, but later emigrated to Pennsylvania, where he began a business in Sharpsburg. This man's first business, which he started at the age of twenty-five, sold packaged horseradish. For the point, name this businessman who founded a namesake company in Pittsburgh and is responsible for transforming tomato ketchup into America's most popular condiment.---At this battle, Colonel Bevier and his corps of sharpshooters attempted to avenge the death of Douglas the Camel, a domesticated pack animal killed by a Union sniper. At this engagement, the appropriately named Confederate leader States Rights Gist attempted to reinforce Joseph Pemberton's besieged troops. Following the surrender after this engagement and at Port Hudson, Abraham Lincoln said "The Father of Waters again goes unvexed to the sea." For the point, name this Ulysses S. Grant victory which resulted in the Union controlling the Mississippi River.---During this conflict, Isaac II Angelos forged a secret treaty to harass German soldiers with horsemen led by Manuel Kamytzes [[kam-EE-tzays]]. While crossing the Saleph River, Frederick Barbarossa died en route to this conflict after being thrown from his horse and drowned. After the capture of Acre [[AHK-ruh]], Richard the Lionheart marched on Jaffa [[JAH-fah]] and soundly defeated Saladin at this conflict's Battle of Arsuf. For the point, name this 12th-century religious conflict.---Statesman John Lewis was a member of the thirteen original participants in this event, which directly followed the Federal court's decision in Boynton v. Virginia. With the SNCC, the Congress of Racial Equality organized this specific event following the success of sit-ins in 1960. For the point, name this challenge to the continued, illegal segregation of public transport in the American South by a contingent of Black youth in the early 1960s.---A car known as Death Special was used to target a group in this state led by Louis Tikas. The Ten-Day War was fought in this state, where Ed Boyce unionized residents of Cripple Creek. The Rockefellers gained ownership of a “Fuel and Iron Company” in this state. Members of the United Mine Workers of America protested labor conditions in a 1913-1914 “Coalfield War” in this state that featured the Ludlow Massacre. Protests across the Front Range occurred in, for the point, what state, where miners worked in cities like Boulder?---In this modern city, the most complete copy of The Deeds of Divine Augustus was found in a temple in the center of this former capital of Roman Galatia. Timur the Lame captured the sitting Sultan Bayezid the Thunderbolt at a battle in this city, causing the Ottoman interregnum period. Kızılay [[koo-zeh-"LIE"]] Square, named for a certain "Red Crescent," is in this city, which was once known as Angora. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk moved the capital from Istanbul to, for the point, which city in central Turkey?---A trapelacucha [[trah-peh-lah-KOO-chah]] was an adornment composed of this good that was made by craftswomen of the Mapuche. In 1548, mass emigration to Zacatecas was brought about by the discovery of this good in San Bernabe. The supply of a different good in Huancavelica allowed for the mass mining of this metal via mercury amalgamation. The patio process was used to extract this metal, which was often mined at Cerro Rico, or “rich mountain” near the Bolivian city of Potosi. The Spanish word “plata" often referred to, for the point, what precious metal?---Sarah Peace created an artwork in Epping Forest in memory of the victims of an attack carried out by this organization. The “Three Rs” policy was followed by Kashim Shettima in the aftermath of one attack carried out by this group that saw a resurgence after a mass prisoner escape from Bauchi. The Sambisa Forest in the state of Borno serves as a headquarters for this group whose longtime leader Abubakar Shekau [[sheh-KOW]] was killed fighting a rival group in May 2021. The hashtag "bringbackourgirls" referenced a kidnapping carried out by, for the point, what Islamist terrorist group in Nigeria?---In this state, "Scalawags" and "Carpetbaggers" fought in vying factions during the Brooks-Baxter War, ending Reconstruction in this state. During that time, this state was governed by the Radical Republican Powell Clayton This one-time territory had modern-day Oklahoma split off from it in 1824, and its town of Hope is the birthplace of President Bill Clinton. Dwight Eisenhower sent the National Guard to desegregate a high school for the Little Rock Nine in, for the point, what southern state?---Due to visiting this city's hot springs, diarist Madame de Sévigné [[seh-vee-NEH]] supposedly cured her paralysis of the hands which allowed her to write letters. Arthur Miller was inspired by the historic Vel d'Hiv [[DEEV]] Roundup to write the play Incident at this city. A government centered on this city succeeded the dissolved Third Republic, and it collapsed after the success of Operation Torch in North Africa. For the point, name this French city which names a collaborationist regime led by Great War hero and right-wing traditionist Philippe Petain [[peh-TAHN]].---Alexander Cumming, a Scottish adventurer, once "crowned" Moytoy of Tellico as "Emperor" of this tribe. A leader of this tribe named Major Ridge was assassinated by supporters of John Ross. Elias Boudinot founded this tribe’s newspaper the Phoenix. This tribe signed the Treaty of New Echota, which, despite the ruling in Worcester v. Georgia, allowed Andrew Jackson to relocate them to Oklahoma. Sequoyah created the syllabary of, for the point, what tribe forcibly removed on the “Trail of Tears?---This process began with two shipments of fourteen of the central beings taken from near Hinton, Alberta. This process involved the use of pens named for Chief Joseph. O-Six was among the fourth generation to have descended from the central animals of this event, which started in the Lamar Valley. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 formed a legal basis for this action, which led to declines in the elk population of its central area. For the point, name this event in which members of the Canis Lupus species were brought back to a national park containing Old Faithful.---On October 17, 1978, Jimmy Carter signed a bill restoring the citizenship of this man, who instated the U.S. Camel Corps. The “Eggnog Riot” led to the confinement of this man, who was the subject of a myth claiming he was captured in women’s clothing. Cornelius Vanderbilt and Horace Greeley helped secure the $100,000 bond for the release of this man, who was advised by Judah P. Benjamin and Alexander Stephens while holding the highest office of a country defended by Robert E. Lee. For the point, name this president of the Confederate States of America.---During the Pullman Strike, a militia led by Timothy Sheehan in this city was ordered to re-capture the Southern Pacific Shops from strikers. Sam Brannan helped design the layout of this city, which was built to the south of New Helvetia. A finding near Coloma inspired a member of the Sutter family to found this city, which served as the western end of the Pony Express. After Vallejo and Benicia, this city came to head its state’s government. For the point, name this capital city of California.---This man represents Uxbridge and South Ruislip [[ROY-slup]] in Parliament. Dominic Raab was appointed First Secretary of State by this man, who served as a Conservative shadow minister under Michael Howard and David Cameron. This leader renounced his American citizenship in 2016 prior to being named Foreign Secretary, a position he resigned from due to Theresa May's policies on Brexit. For the point, name this one-nation conservative that became prime minister of the United Kingdom in 2019.---In a video by John Ryle, a man consults with one of these animals to determine if he should divorce his second wife. That practice involving these animals was known as “benge.” The Azande settled witchcraft accusations by poisoning these animals, whose skin was supposed to be vomited by the innocent during the tangena ordeal practiced under Ranavalona I in Madagascar. Africans in Jamaica were thought to have invented a way of preparing this animal for consumption with a spice called jerk. For the point, name these animals used in cockfighting.---In an epic poem, this man is depicted flying to heaven on griffins and exploring the bottom of the sea in a glass boat. The Quranic figure Dhul-Qarnayn is typically viewed as a representation of this man. Medieval legends about this man were largely derived from the manuscripts of Pseudo-Callisthenes and make up the basis of his namesake romances. This man compared his relationship with Hephaestion to that of Achilles and Patroclus. For the point, name this son of Philip II, a conquering king of Macedonia.---
The Whites (accept White Army, White Guard, White Guardsmen, or White Movement)---Mountain Meadows Massacre---Battle of Camlann (accept Gwaith Camlan; accept Brwydr Camlan)---Anne Hutchinson (accept Anne Marbury; prompt on “Marbury”) ---July Crisis (accept July Ultimatum)---Publius Quinctilius Varus---Battle of Saipan---Basil II (accept Basil the Bulgar Slayer or Basileios ho Boulgaroktonos before mentioned; accept Basil Porphyrogenitos; or Basil, Born in the Purple; prompt on partial answers) ---Alcibiades, son of Cleinias [[al-sih-BY-ah-deez]] (be lenient on pronunciation)---Kangxi [[KAHNG-SHEE]] Emperor (accept Qing Xuanye [[SHWAN-"yeah"]])---Wallonia (accept Région Wallonne; accept Walloon Region; accept Wallonische Region; accept Waals gewest; accept Wallonie; accept Wallonien)---Ukiyo-e ( accept Nishiki-e; prompt on "Woodblock print" before mentioned) ---Halifax Explosion (accept descriptive answers involving the disaster in Halifax)---Lakota (accept Oglala Lakota; accept Hunkpapa Lakota; accept [aLakota[/a] Sioux; accept Sioux; accept Teton Sioux; prompt on "Sioux")---Boshin War (or Boshin Senso; prompt on "Japanese Revolution")---Aurangzeb (accept Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad; accept Alamgir) ---Bethlehem Steel Corporation (accept Bethlehem after “steel” is mentioned)---1812 Overture (accept The Year 1812 Solemn Overture---Denmark Vesey (accept Telemaque before mentioned)---Klondike Gold Rush (prompt on partial answers; prompt on answers indicating a gold rush in Canada or the Yukon)---Henry J(ohn) Heinz (accept Heinz ketchup) ---Battle of Vicksburg (accept Siege of Vicksburg or Vicksburg Campaign)---Third Crusade (accept Kings' Crusade)---Freedom Rides (or Freedom Riders; do not accept or prompt on "Freedom Summer")---Colorado ---Ankara (accept Battle of Ankara; accept Ancyra; accept Angora before mentioned)---Silver (or Ag; prompt on “plata” before mentioned)---Boko Haram (accept Jamā'at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da'wah wa'l-Jihād; accept Group of the People of Sunnah for Preaching and Jihad; accept Wilāyat Garb Ifrīqīyā; accept Western Education is Forbidden or equivalents; do not accept or prompt on "Islamic State's West Africa Province" or "ISWAP")---Arkansas ---Vichy (accept Vichy France; accept French State or État français)---Cherokee (or the Cherokee Nation; accept Tsalagi)---Reintroduction of gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park (prompt on partial answers; accept obvious equivalents in place of “reintroduction”)---Jefferson Davis (or Jefferson Finis Davis) ---Sacramento---Boris Johnson (or Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson) ---Chicken (accept Game fowl; accept Gallus gallus domesticus; accept rooster; accept hen)---Alexander the Great (accept Alexander III of Macedon)---