C---True---96
This city was blockaded after its leader hit Pierre Deval with a ﬂy whisk. Viscount Exmouth bombarded this city after its leader refused to abolish Christian slavery; that bombing of this city allowed Stephen Decatur to end its impressment of American sailors. Omar Agha, a leader of this city, clashed with Decatur’s forces during the Second Barbary War. For the point, name this city, historically ruled by a dey, that is now the capital of a North African country.---One side in this war accomplished its ﬁrst ever naval victory in the Battle of Gangut, while the ﬁnal, decisive naval battle in this war was the Battle of Grengam. The Greater Wrath and this war were ended by the Treaty of Nystad. Despite an early victory at Narva, a European empire faded after Carl Gustav Rehnskiold was crushed at Poltava. For the point, name this 18th century war between Peter the Great of Russia and Charles XII of Sweden.---This city’s Parian district is often regarded as the world’s ﬁrst Chinatown. This city was claimed for Spain by the Basque explorers Legazpi and Urdaneta, and this city named a type of ship that participated in transoceanic trade primarily with Acapulco. This city’s Malacanang Palace was built on the Pasig River. A very large type of galleon was named for, for the point, what center of Spain’s “China trade,” the largest city in the modern-day Philippines?---Explorer Gertrude Bell persuaded the British government to support this dynasty during and after World War I after being captured by their rivals, the Rashids. This dynasty employed religious militia called the Ikhwan, or brothers, and this dynasty were early converts to the teachings of Abd al-Wahhab. This dynasty conquered Hejaz to gain custody of Islam’s two holiest places. For the point, name this dynasty whose King Salman currently rules a namesake kingdom in the largest country on the Arabian Peninsula.---This composer’s 8th string quartet begins with a motif symbolizing his own name. After this composer received a government denunciation, he described his next symphony as a “response to just criticism.” Another of this composer’s works includes a repeating ostinato called the “Invasion Theme” and was named for a city “that Stalin destroyed and Hitler merely ﬁnished oﬀ.” For the point, name this Soviet composer of Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District and the Leningrad symphony. Shostakovich---A supply convoy headed to relieve a siege of this location was caught in a “moonlight battle,” as George Rodney was intercepted by enemy ships near Cape St. Vincent. The arrival of Richard Howe’s ﬂeet ﬁnally ended that “Grand Assault” on this location by the Duc de Crillon’s French and Spanish alliance, the longest-ever siege endured by the British army. George Eliott was knighted for defending a system of tunnels at the “Rock” of, for the point, what British territory on the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula?---A man who was convicted of this crime passed money to his Colombian wife, Maria del Rosario. Aldrich Ames was convicted of this crime in 1994, as was Robert Hanssen in 2001. Along with perjury, this was the crime that Whittaker Chambers and Alger Hiss were accused of in the 1950s. In 1953, a Jewish couple was controversially executed for this crime. The Rosenbergs were executed for, for the point, what crime in which they passed state secrets to the Soviet Union?---This leader may have pretended to be Smenkhare to rule during the Amarna Period. The sculptor Thutmose created a bust of this leader with a blue cap crown that is now in the New Museum in Berlin. This person’s mummy may be the “Younger Lady,” the mother of King Tutankhamen. A female pharaoh named Neferneferuaten in the New Kingdom may have been this woman. For the point, name this Queen consort of Egypt who may have served as Pharaoh after the death of her husband, Akhenaten.---This man’s father, Solomon Stoddard, supported the Half-Way Covenant. This New Light minister wrote a “Narrative” on the religious revival in Northampton, Massachusetts, and proclaimed it was the “mere and arbitrary grace” of God to grant people holiness. This grandfather of Aaron Burr gave his most famous address in 1741 in Enﬁeld, Connecticut, where he noted that the “mere pleasure of God” kept wicked men out of Hell. For the point, name this Puritan preacher who wrote Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.---During this event, Armand du Paty de Clam faked a hand injury to obtain a writing sample from a suspect. Georges Picquart uncovered that a memorandum in this event was actually written by Ferdinand Esterhazy. This event’s main subject was sent to Devil’s Island after being convicted of passing military secrets to the Germans in 1894. Emile Zola’s letter “J’Accuse” concerned, for the point, what aﬀair in which a Jewish French military oﬃcer was convicted of espionage? Dreyfus Aﬀair (accept answers related to the trial or imprisonment of Alfred Dreyfus)---A Prime Minister of Britain was told to “hit [this man] hard, hit him soon, and hit him by yourself,” which led to Operation Kadesh. This man’s pan-Arabic stance led to the United Arabic Republic with Syria. Anthony Eden resigned during a crisis that began when this leader seized the Suez Canal. This man replaced the head of the Free Oﬃcers Movement, Mohammed Naguib, in a 1954 coup. Anwar Sadat succeeded, for the point, what Egyptian ruler who built the Aswan High Dam and became President in 1956?---This thinker theorized about the origins of religion in his book The Future of an Illusion. In another work, this thinker theorized the “death drive” in an attempt to accomplish the title task of going Beyond the Pleasure Principle. This thinker, who developed a ﬁve-stage theory of psychosexual development, postulated the Oedipus Complex and wrote The Interpretation of Dreams. For the point, name this Austrian thinker, the founder of psychoanalysis.---During a coup attempt against this man, Lu Buwei disguised Lao Ai as a eunuch in an attempt to win inﬂuence with the dowager queen. Jing Ke attempted to assassinate this man by hiding a dagger in a map after this man attacked the state of Yan. After defeating the kingdoms of Wei, Chu, and Zhao to take power, this man began construction on the Great Wall and buried dissenting Confucians alive. The Warring States Period ended with the rise of, for the point, what ﬁrst emperor of China?---The National Republicans selected this man as their candidate in the 1832 Presidential election which he failed to win, an outcome he repeated in 1840 and 1844. A personal vendetta against this man led to the veto of the Maysville Road. This politician proposed simultaneous statehood for Missouri and Maine as part of an 1820 agreement. This man supposedly beneﬁted from the Corrupt Bargain that allowed him to become John Quincy Adams’ Secretary of State. For the point, name this Kentucky politician, labeled the “Great Compromiser.”---Frederick Coulston set up a controversial facility dedicated to medical research on these animals, one of which endured seventy-six electric shocks due to an equipment malfunction while pulling levers in response to light and sound. Minnie, one of these animals, was the back-up to another whose eﬀorts led directly to a May 1961 mission, the ﬁrst manned human spaceﬂight by Alan Shepard. NASA’s Project Mercury featured participation from ENOS and Ham who were, for the point, what kind of primate who were studied in Tanzania by Jane Goodall? chimpanzees (prompt on apes; prompt on primates before mentioned)---During this campaign, a futile bayonet charge was led by Alexander Godfrey. Sir Frederick Stopford was dismissed after failing to attack after landing at Sulva Bay in this campaign. General Ian Hamilton persuaded forces to carry out the Battle of Lone Pine to draw attention away from this campaign’s August Oﬀensive. Otto Liman von Sanders opposed ANZAC forces during this campaign, in which Mustafa Kemal rose to military prominence by commanding Turkish troops. Winston Churchill was disgraced by the outcome of, for the point, what failed British campaign against the Ottoman Empire in World War I?---According to eyewitness accounts, this group’s medics frequently used Coca-Cola to treat dysentery. This group purged its country’s Cham Muslim population and harshly discriminated against “New People” from its country’s cities. This party overthrew the dictatorship of Lon Nol with the assistance of Prince Sihanouk, and was led by the “Committee”, headed by a man formerly known as Saloth Sar. For the point, name this communist party led by Pol Pot in Cambodia.---This battle was triggered by Catesby ap Roger Jones’ attempted attack on the USS Minnesota. One vessel that participated in this battle was originally designed at the Gosport Naval Yard under the orders of Stephen Mallory; that warship had its components built at the Tredegar Works, faced oﬀ against another similar ship led by John Worden, and was later abandoned after failing to break the Union’s blockade of Norfolk. For the point, name this 1862 Civil War battle that saw the clash of two ironclads.---An executive of this company compared his company’s activities to the “delivery of our food supply.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was passed in response to this company’s use of “mark-to-market” accounting under CFO Jeﬀrey Skilling, which helped cause the closure of the accounting ﬁrm Arthur Andersen. Kenneth Lay was indicted in Houston for unfair business practices as CEO of, for the point, what energy company whose accounting fraud led to its massive 2001 bankruptcy?---This city’s most inﬂuential leader was killed at the Battle of Mantinea from this city-state was wiped out at the Battle of Chaeronea [care-oh-nay-uh] by the forces of Philip of Macedon. This city’s general Epaminondas placed his strongest hoplites on his left ﬂank to win the Battle of Leuctra [look-tra] over Sparta. The Sacred Band fought for, for the point, what central Greek city-state [bi-OH-shuh] and rivaled post-Golden Age Athens. that dominated the region of Boeotia---In the 14th century, Wang Dayuan wrote an early account of this city, where Fort Canning was built in 1861. When this city fell to Japan in 1942, Winston Churchill called it the “worst disaster” in British military history. Stamford Raﬄes built a British trading port in this city, which was ruled by the Sultan of Johor. The People’s Action Party won the ﬁrst election in this country, which saw growth under Lee Kuan Yew. For the point, name this Southeast Asian island city-state that was expelled from Malaysia in 1965.---A plan to increase this ruler’s power was called “Thorough” by advisor Thomas Wentworth, the ﬁrst Earl of Straﬀord. This ruler was forced to sign the embarrassing Treaty of Ripon with the Covenanters, and his attempts to call “ship money” taxes ended in ﬁasco. The Long Parliament was ﬁrst called by this king, and it was purged by his successor, Oliver Cromwell. For the point, name this English King who succeeded James I and was executed following his loss in the English Civil War.---This man described saints “whose bones Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold” in a poem about the massacre of Waldensians in Piedmont. After his ﬁrst wife left him, he wrote four controversial pamphlets on divorce; he later attacked the Licensing Order of 1643, arguing that “he who destroys a good book kills reason itself” in a work defending freedom of speech. For the point, name this author of Areopagitica who looked to “justify the ways of God to man” in Paradise Lost.---Argersinger v. Hamlin extended the decision from this case, whose winning side was represented by future disgraced Supreme Court justice Abe Fortas. This court case extended Powell v. Alabama while overturning Betts v. Brady. The defendant in this case was arrested after allegedly breaking into a Florida pool hall. For the point, name this court case that guaranteed the right to an attorney in criminal trials, even if the defendant could not aﬀord one.---Annually on this day of the week, Eastern Orthodox churches change their vestamental colors from red or purple to black. Along with Wednesday, Eastern Orthodox Christians traditionally abstain from animal products on this day of the week, and Roman Catholics originally abstained from meat on this day. On this day of the week, Muslims gather for the Jumu’ah prayer service. For the point, give this day of the week on which Jesus’s cruciﬁxion is commemorated, celebrated by Christians as “Good.” Friday (accept Good Friday)---Soldiers revolting against this empire were given medicine that allegedly turned bullets to water. After this empire won the Battle of Waterberg, it massacred a tribe led by Hendrik Witbooi; that genocide targeted both the Namaqua and Herero. The Maji Maji Rebellion opposed this empire, whose colony of South West Africa, which included modern Namibia, was lost after World War I. For the point, name this empire that fostered the Scramble for Africa by hosting the Congress of Berlin. Germany (accept German Empire; accept Deutsche Kaiserreich; accept Deutsche Reich)---Both the Bonneville Dam and the Rocky Reach Dam on this river pioneered the use of juvenile ﬁsh bypass systems to help salmon migration. Lewis and Clark spent the winter of 1805 at Fort Clatsop on the shores of this river at the future site of Fort Astoria. Lake Franklin Delano Roosevelt was created on this river by the completion of the Grand Coulee Dam. The Snake River is a tributary of, for the point, what large river in the Paciﬁc northwest?---Positivists in this country urged the population to engage in “organic work” instead of launching further rebellions after the failure of the January Uprising in 1835. The nobility in this country was known as szlachta [sh’lock-ta], and many were murdered by peasants in the Galician slaughter. This country’s last king, Stanislaw Poniatowski, helped write its Constitution of 3rd May before he was defeated by Catherine the Great. For the point, name this country that endured 3 partitions after the fall of its commonwealth with Lithuania.---This man sharply criticized the Teamsters Union and Jimmy Hoﬀa in a book that drew on his work as chief counsel on the McClellan Committee, The Enemy Within. Thirteen Days was a posthumously- published work by this man detailing his role in the Cuban Missile Crisis. This man spoke on the “mindless menace of violence” in Cleveland a day after giving an impromptu speech after the death of Martin Luther King. For the point, name this politician who was a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination when he was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan in 1968, ﬁve years after the death of his brother.---Andrew Beckett, a lawyer who suﬀers from this disease, is played by Tom Hanks in the 1993 ﬁlm Philadelphia. Ron Woodroof’s illegal smuggling of drugs to ﬁght this disease are the subject of a 2013 ﬁlm that won Matthew McConaughey an Oscar, Dallas Buyers Club. In 2003, HBO aired a miniseries version of Tony Kushner’s play about this disease, Angels in America. For the point, name this disease whose 1980s epidemic also provides the setting for Jonathan Larsen’s Rent.---This man ordered the execution of folk hero “Breaker” Morant, an Australian soldier accused of shooting civilians. This man, who was killed on the Hampshire when his ship struck a mine in the North Sea, expanded the usage of concentration camps after he succeeded Lord Roberts as commander in the Boer War. This man rose to fame after the Battle of Omdurman, where he secured the British reconquest of the Sudan. For the point, name this Secretary of State for War who “wants you,” according to a famous World War I recruitment poster.---Sam Anderson’s Boom Town observes that this man’s failed $1,000 wager on the Buﬀalo Bills’ third of four straight Super Bowl losses came just days before he abandoned his home in Buﬀalo and drove to Waco to show support for the besieged Branch Davidians. Three days after this man was jailed for driving without a license plate and having an illegal concealed gun, he was charged with committing an attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building that killed 168 people in 1995. For the point, name this domestic terrorist who committed the Oklahoma City bombing.---This event is commemorated by an annual full-length marathon at White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. This event’s eﬀects were partially reversed for its American victims after the “Great Raid” on Cabanatuan. This event’s perpetrators executed numerous people at Pantingan River, ignoring Masaharu Homma’s orders that its victims be “transferred peacefully.” For the point, name this 1942 event in which tens of thousands of prisoners-of-war were forced by the Japanese Army through the Philippines.---Leading up to this event, Bruce MacKenzie was instrumental in allowing intelligence gathering. This event was preceded by a hijacking that Waddie Hadad ordered the PFLP-EO to carry out. Dora Bloch was murdered and her body was left in a ﬁeld in the aftermath of this event, in which Yonatan Netanyahu was killed in action. Idi Amin condemned this action, which took place in his country’s largest airport. For the point, name this Israeli operation that rescued 100 hostages in 1976.---Portugal was eventually added to this ruler’s domain after King Sebastian vanished in North Africa and this man won the Battle of Alcantara. This man supposedly laughed for the ﬁrst time after hearing of the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre in France. His attempts to attack England were eventually thwarted at the Battle of Gravelines [grahv-uh-leen], where ﬁre ships were used against his ﬂeet. Queen Elizabeth gave the Tilbury speech to rally support against the forces of, for the point, what king who sent out the Spanish Armada?---Ruth Bader Ginsburg compared discarding a section of this law to “throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm because you are not getting wet.” A year after this law was passed, this law’s formula was upheld by South Carolina v. Katzenbach ; in 2013, that formula for preclearance requirements was struck down by Shelby County v. Holder as unconstitutional. Literacy tests and other methods of disenfranchisement were banned by, for the point, what 1965 civil rights law that banned racial discrimination at the polls? Voting Rights Act of 1965 (accept VRA)---Biswanath Sardar was hung for leading a revolt over growing this cash crop, which was incentivized with large loans called “dadon.” Benjamin Franklin sailed on the U.S.S. Reprisal with 35 barrels of this commodity to negotiate with France. After rice, this commodity became the second largest cash crop grown in South Carolina, following its popularization by Eliza Pinckney. This plant was farmed as an alternative to Murex snails to create Tyrian Purple. For the point, name this crop of the colonial American South that can be processed into a deep blue dye.---The Battle of Karameh failed to completely eliminate this political party, thanks to the tactics of its fedayeen guerillas. This party’s attempts to overthrow the Hashemite monarchy under Hussein II led to its expulsion from Jordan. The 1972 Munich Massacre was carried out by a splinter cell of this party, Black September. Mahmoud Abbas currently chairs this party, which was founded by Yasser Arafat. For the point, name this Palestinian political party that is opposed to Hamas.---In this election year, Congressman John Taliaferro a thousand men and eating their corpses for breakfast in a “coﬃn handbill.” A losing candidate in this election year ran along side Richard Rush and was attacked for buying a billiard table with public funds. John C. Calhoun maintained the vice presidency in, for the point, what year, whose Presidential election followed the “Corrupt Bargain” election and resulted in John Quincy Adams ﬁnally losing to Andrew Jackson.---This man’s ﬁndings conﬁrmed ones Abel Niepce de Saint Victor had made thirty years prior. This man was unable to expose his photographic plates to sun on an overcast day, allowing him to determine the link between phosphorescence and X-rays. This man shared the 1903 Nobel Prize with his doctoral student, Marie Curie, who aided him on experiments with uranium. For the point, name this French scientist, the namesake of the SI unit for radioactivity.---This man took advantage of the death of Rabbel Il Soter to peacefully annex Nabataea. In another war, this man captured the fortress of Sarmizegetusa Regia and had to twice destroy its walls after they were rebuilt; that war featured the construction of a namesake bridge across the Danube built by this man’s architect, Apollodorus of Damascus. Decebalus was defeated in the Dacian War by, for the point, what second of the Five Good Emperors who grew the Roman Empire to its greatest size and who is commemorated by a namesake Roman column? Trajan (or Caesar Nerva Traianus Germanicus or Caesar Divi Nervae Filius Nerva---One leader with this surname promised that his country would “eat grass” in order to get a nuclear weapon; that leader with this surname was hanged by the government of Zia ul-Haq. The PPP Party was led for most of its existence by politicians with this surname, one of whom was assassinated in 2007 in Rawalpindi and was her country’s ﬁrst female Prime Minister. For the point, give this surname of Zulﬁkar Ali and Benazir, two Prime Ministers of Pakistan.---This politician had a long-term aﬀair with Marietta Tree, who was with him when he died in 1965. This man defeated Dwight Green in a 1948 statewide election, partially due to Green’s poor handling of the Centralia mine disaster. Richard Nixon accused this politician of holding a Ph.D. from Dean Acheson’s “cowardly College of Communist Containment.” Bill Gallagher won a Pulitzer for a picture depicting this man with a hole in his shoe while on the campaign trail in 1952. For the point, name this politician from Illinois who lost two presidential elections to Dwight Eisenhower.---A nickname for this city originates from a ﬁshing trap created by locals. The “Bloody Saturday” photograph was taken in this city, where a God City Temple was built to mark its municipal status. This city’s proximity to the capital of the Southern Song Dynasty gave it the nickname “Little Hangzhou.” A group of namesake Russians emigrated to this city, which also names a political clique led by Jiang Zemin. The Bund and the ﬁnancial district of Pudong are in, for the point, what city, the most populous in China and the world?---A premier of this nation maintained the Mongoose Gang, a private army, and was accused of rigging the 1970 Miss World beauty pageant. In this country, Paul Scoon was placed under house arrest by Hudson Austin, a member of the New Jewel Movement. Maurice Bishop was executed in this nation, where concern over the safety of medical students at St. George’s University were grounds for a military campaign. This country’s Port Salines Airport was taken over during Operation Urgent Fury. For the point, name this Caribbean island nation that the U.S. invaded upon Ronald Reagan’s orders in 1983.---Prisoner of war camps for people captured during this campaign served as the recruiting grounds for the Trawniki men. The targets of this campaign were to be starved out by the strategies of the Hunger Plan. The Great Patriotic War began after this event, in which Army Group South planned on taking control of the oil reserves of the Caucasus. Afraid of Napoleon’s failure, the overseer of this 1941 campaign focused on destroying the Red Army rather than taking Moscow. For the point, name this Nazi invasion of Russia.---This man’s mother-in-law Alexandra tried to plot against him by appealing to Cleopatra to make Aristobulus III high priest, forcing this man to execute Aristobulus III. In the Gospel of Matthew, this man orders the death of every child less than two in Bethlehem. This man built the port of Caesarea Maritima and the fortress of Masada and he helped rebuild the Second Temple. As a Roman client king, this man took power following the fall of the Hasmonean Dynasty of Judea. For the point, name this Great king of Judea.---Vladimir Horowitz refused to play a challenging piece by this composer nicknamed “Waterfall.” This composer allegedly said, “All this has caused me much pain. Who could have foreseen it!” in response to a November 1831 uprising against the Russians in this composer’s home country. That uprising inspired a piece that was published with this composer’s “Black Key” etude in a collection dedicated to Franz Liszt. The “Revolutionary” Etude was composed by, for the point, what Polish pianist?---With Aragon, a king with this name signed the Treaty of Almirzra to deﬁne conquests in Andalusia. Gonzalo de C´ordoba served a king of this name, capturing Naples and Granada. Boabdil of the Nasrid Dynasty was defeated by forces under a king of this name and his wife. This man was the regent for Joanna the Mad before Charles V took power. A king of this name sponsored Christopher Columbus’s expedition to the New World. For the point, a king of Aragon with what name married Isabella of Castille to unite Spain?---Suetonius made note of one of these works in Rome that noted “A calculation new. Nero his mother slew.” Anoter work of this type notes “I love her whose number is 545” and was discovered in the ruins at Pompeii. In Egypt, these artworks were often scrawled in red paint by construction gangs at sites such as the Great Pyramid. A modern creator of this type of artwork drew nine images on the West Bank wall. For the point, name this art form produced by Banksy, who creates often political statements using spray paint.---This city was the site of the Hamaguri Gate Incident and is home to the tomb of Go-Shirakawa. Walls called onoi were built during restoration eﬀorts in this city conducted under Toyotomi Hideyoshi. Emperor Kanmu moved his capital to this city, which was attacked by Minamoto Yoritomo in 1183. The Battle of Uji took place near this city during the Genpei War, which ended a period in which this city was the capital. For the point, name this city that was Japan’s capital during the Heian Period.---The name of this organization comes from a quote about the Battle of Waterloo from the poem “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage.” Ralph Bunche won a Nobel Prize for his actions taken on behalf of this organization. The chief purpose of the Dumbarton Oaks Conference was to formulate this organization, which was announced on New Year’s Day 1942. There are ﬁve permanent members of the Security Council within, for the point, what international peacekeeping organization?---During this war, the volunteer Army of the Vosges This war saw the ﬁrst use of a precursor to the machine gun called the mitrailleuse [mee-tra-yuze]. The superiority of Krupp artillery proved decisive during this war’s Battle of Gravelotte, and its Battle of Beaumont preceded a disastrous defeat that resulted in the capture of a leader. After those battles, Marshal Bazaine surrendered at Metz, leading to the creation of the Third Republic. The Battle of Sedan was fought during, for the point, what war that ended with a German defeat of Napoleon III?---One author from this country wrote a novel subtitled “Civilization and Barbarism” in which the title character becomes a caudillo. Another author from this country wrote the story “Axolotl” as well as a novel which can be read either straight through or skipping chapters in a prescribed order; that author of Hopscotch is Julio Cortazar. Another author from this country wrote short stories like “The Garden of Forking Paths.” For the point, name this home country of Jorge Luis Borges, who protested its leaders during the Dirty War.---Description acceptable. An attempt to set up a colony at this speciﬁc location lost a ship in Matagorda Bay, roughly 400 miles to the southwest; that attempt was led by Robert de La Salle, whose men mutinied and killed him in 1687 while searching for this location. Rather than risk an encounter with the Spanish, Louis Jolliet and Jacques Marquette correctly assumed that this location was not on the Paciﬁc Ocean and turned around. This location has changed ﬁve times in the last several thousand years due to sediment deposit and course changes, creating bayous and America’s largest delta. For the point, name this location where hundreds of thousands of cubic feet of water enter the Gulf of Mexico every second.---William Livingston opposed funding this institution in his opposition to the Anglican faction, although that didn’t stop Samuel Johnson from founding this school. The Philolexian Society was founded at this school that, in 1784, named George Clinton as its chancellor. Myles Cooper was defended from a mob at this location due to a speech by then-student Alexander Hamilton. King’s College evolved into, for the point, what New York university that is now part of the Ivy League? Columbia University (accept Anglican King’s College before mentioned)---A work by this author discusses the rise of the militia movement in his home state of Montana and the abandonment of Norse Greenland, among other stories of ecological collapse. This author’s most famous work opens with “Yali’s question” and proposes the “Anna Karenina principle” of animal domestication; that work argues that the three title concepts, together with domesticable plants and animals, enabled Europe’s global supremacy. For the point, name this author of Guns, Germs, and Steel.---This leader established a new capital that absorbed the city of Avaris and may have been used as a supply depot for his Syrian campaigns. A weakening of this leader’s relations with the Canaan princes and accusations that he harbored Mursili III pulled this man into a conﬂict with his northern rivals. This man commissioned the temples of Abu Simbel and dedicated them to his wife Nefertari. Muwatalli II was defeated by this man in a battle that resulted in the world’s ﬁrst recorded peace treaty. For the point, name this Egyptian Pharaoh who won the Battle of Kadesh.---In Matthew chapter 20, a landowner who had distributed these objects asks “are you envious because I am generous?” and questions “Don’t I have the right to do what I want with my own money?” In that story, a day laborer complains that another received this object for only an hour’s work. This coin was compared by Jesus to the Kingdom of Heaven and paid out in the Parable of the Workers in the Vineyard. For the point, name this Roman silver coin from whose name the Spanish word for money derives.---A 1953 uprising in this country led to the arrest of Lavrentiy Beria on the belief he pushed destabilizing policies. Markus Wolf was a leader of an organization in this country that trained Gunter Guillaume [gee-yohm]. The SED led this country for over 40 years, including periods of leadership under Erich Honecker and Walter Ulbricht. This country was the chief target of Willy Brandt’s Ostpolitik. The Stasi was an intelligence organization in, for the point, what European country that reuniﬁed with its western neighbor after the fall of the Berlin Wall?---After a Senator was involved in one of these events, Walter Mondale earned the distinction of losing a political race in every US state; Mondale had replaced the late Paul Wellstone as a candidate. Tip O’Neill replaced Hale Boggs as House Majority Leader after Boggs was involved in one of these events. Ted Stevens, who survived one of these events in 1978, died in one shortly after he was cleared from his federal corruption charge. For the point, name this type of tragedy that was intentionally caused by terrorists on 9/11.---Doubts of Yue Fei’s loyalty to this dynasty led to his execution. This dynasty attempted to recover the Sixteen Prefectures, and used paddle-wheel ships. In the Jingkang incident, its capital Kaifeng was captured by the Jin dynasty, marking the boundary between its northern and southern periods. This dynasty was crushed at the Battle of Yamen and was the ﬁrst to use paper money and gunpowder. For the point, name this Chinese dynasty that was defeated by the Mongols.---This event was made worse by inﬂammatory radio broadcasts by the RTLM, and it was precipitated by the shooting down of a plane carrying President Juv´enal Habyarimana. Koﬁ Annan refused to allow a U.N. peacekeeping force to intervene against this event’s perpetrators, a group of radical Hutus who used machetes against the Tutsis. For the point, name this months-long event in which more than a million people were killed in Africa in 1994.---This ruler built the ﬁrst printing yard in his country, though the printers ﬂed to Lithuania after an arson attack. Richard Chancellor established relations between this ruler and England by sailing through the White Sea to Archangel. To celebrate the Siege of Kazan, this ruler constructed St. Basil’s Cathedral. This ruler was succeeded by the ineﬀectual Feodor after he murdered his son in a ﬁt of rage. For the point, name this Russian monarch, the ﬁrst to claim the title of Tsar.---This building was built near the remains of the Hanyang royal villa, where an inscription reading “the most blessed place on earth” was found. While American forces were distracted by the Tet Oﬀensive in another country, assassins targeted this building in the January 21 Incident. An attack on this building led the government to create the hit squad Unit 681, but they decided to mutiny and hijack a bus to Seoul instead. This building was once the home of assassination target Park Chung-hee and is now occupied by Moon Jae-in. For the point, name this complex in Seoul, the home of the South Korean president.---An independence movement from this country committed a train hijacking in the Netherlands in 1975. A secessionist province of this country gained the right to impose a form of sharia law in 2002. The Free South Moluccan Youth was a terror group from this country, where the Free Aceh [ah-chay] Movement operated until a 2004 natural disaster. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country that granted independence to East Timor in 2002 and was the land nearest to the epicenter of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Indonesia---L. Patrick Gray brieﬂy replaced a director of this organization whose secretary, Helen Gandy, destroyed numerous secret ﬁles after his death. Associate Director Clyde Tolson was succeeded as leader of this agency by a man later conﬁrmed to be “Deep Throat.” Martin Luther King Jr. was investigated under this agency’s COINTELPRO program. This agency caught criminals like Public Enemy Number 1, John Dillinger. For the point, name this federal law enforcement agency that was once led by J. Edgar Hoover.---This present-day body of water’s ﬁshing industry, based in towns such as Karateren, relies mostly on bream and carp and has increased sharply since 2005. This body of water is located in its country’s Kyzylorda Region, and a former port town that partially shares its name with this body of water is now 20 kilometers from its shores. The 2005 installation of a dike on its south coast has allowed this lake to keep more water from the Syr Darya River, whose over-irrigation led to this lake’s creation. For the point name this portion of a formerly large inland sea, a recently-formed lake located entirely in Kazakhstan.---Mzilikazi [m’zili-kazi] served as one of this man’s generals before founding his own kingdom, and Henry Francis Fynn served as a doctor at this leader’s court. This leader ordered all of the milk cows in his realm slaughtered after his mother’s death. A series of migrations called the mfecane [m’feh-cah-nay] caused by this leader led to the creation of groups like the Ndebele [de-beh-lay], and this leader pioneered the use of a stabbing spear that replaced the assegai, the iklwa. For the point, name this Zulu conqueror.---One monarch with this name was the subject of a poem labeling him “warlike as a pard, sweet as a spikenard.” Another monarch of this name was overthrown by an invasion coordinated by Roger Mortimer and his wife, Isabella of France; that monarch with this name may have had an aﬀair with the courtier Piers Gaveston. Another monarch of this name was nicknamed “Hammer of the Scots” for his defeat of William Wallace. For the point, give this royal name shared by a 20th century ruler who abdicated to marry Wallis Simpson and by a 13th century ruler nicknamed “Longshanks.”---The inspiration for this novel came from the author’s realization that tales he read in Century magazines were “emotionless as rocks.” A character in this novel has what seems to be a “profound dignity in the ﬁrm lines of his awful face,” but dies with “an expression of every agony” in front of the protagonist. Jim Conklin dies in front of Henry Fleming, a young private in the 304th New York Regiment who wishes he had proof of valor. For the point, name this Civil War novel by Stephen Crane.---Fritz Kuhn led a group that sought to promote this regime in the US, using Camp Norland as its largest headquarters. An embrace of Savitri Devi splintered a group that used this regime’s ideology and was founded by George Lincoln Rockwell. A group promoting this regime’s ideology unsuccessfully marched in Skokie, Illinois. Charles Lindbergh’s America First Committee opposed America entering a war against this country until Japan bombed Pearl Harbor. For the point, name this regime led by Adolf Hitler.---A rhyming slogan coined in this country in 1672 described it as senseless, leaderless, and rudderless during its “year of disaster,” which culminated in the lynching of the De Witt brothers. Balthasar Gerard assassinated a monarch from this country, where the Duke of Alva used brutal tactics in a failed attempt to crush a revolt during the Eighty Years’ War that culminated in its independence. For the point, name this country that was led by Stadtholders like William the Silent.---An American consul in this modern-day country wrote the Blood Telegram during the genocidal Operation Searchlight, which was supervised by General Tikka Khan. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman led this country’s pro-independence party, the Awami League, which won legislative elections in the country that controlled it in 1971. This country’s independence was secured by an Indian invasion after refugees ﬂooded cities like Kolkata from this country. For the point, name this country that was known as East Pakistan before its independence and which now has its capital at Dhaka.---This colonel may have committed a war crime when he ambushed a group of Canadians under Joseph Jumonville during peacetime. As a member of the Virginia Regiment, the ﬁrst professional American force, this man led the Forbes expedition to capture Fort Duquesne [do-cane]. Upon that expedition’s failure, this man was forced to build and then surrender Fort Necessity in 1754, helping start the French and Indian War. For the point, name this American general who later served as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolution.---
Algiers---Great Northern War---Manila---House of Sa’ud (accept Saudis)---Dmitri Page 1 ---Gibraltar (accept Rock of Gibraltar; do not accept Strait of Gibraltar)---espionage (accept equivalent answers, like spying)---Nefertiti---Jonathan Edwards---Page 2 ---Abdel Gamel Nasser---Sigmund Freud---Qin Shi Huangdi (accept Ying Zheng; accept Zhao Zheng; accept King Zheng of Qin)---Henry Clay---Page 3 ---Gallipoli Campaign (or the Dardanelles Campaign; accept similar descriptions, like the Battle of Gallipoli)---Khmer Rouge (prompt on descriptive answers of the communist party of Cambodia before mentioned)---Battle of Hampton Roads (accept Battle of the Ironclads before “Ironclads” is read; accept Battle of the USS Monitor and CSS Merrimack)---Enron [man-ti-nay-uh]. An elite force---Thebes Page 4 ---Singapore---Charles I---John Milton---Gideon v. Wainwright------Page 5 ---Columbia River---Poland---Robert Fitzgerald Kennedy (or RFK; prompt on Kennedy)---HIV/AIDS (accept either or both; accept Human Immunodeﬁciency Virus and/or Acquired Immune Deﬁciency Syndrome; accept Kaposi’s sarcoma)---Horatio Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl Kitchener (accept Lord Kitchener) Page 6 ---Timothy McVeigh---Bataan Death March---Operation Entebbe (accept descriptions of the Entebbe Raid; accept Operation Thunderbolt and Operation Jonathan before “Yonatan” is read; prompt on descriptions that don’t use the word “Entebbe”)---Philip II of Spain (accept Philip I of Portugal, but do not accept or prompt on “Philip I” alone; prompt on Philip alone)---Page 7 ---Indigo---Fatah (prompt on Palestinian National Liberation Movement) [“tolliver”] accused the victor of slaughtering---United States Presidential election of 1828---Henri Becquerel---Traianus Optimus Augustus, but do not prompt on partial answers thereof) Page 8 ---Bhutto (accept Zulﬁkar Ali Bhutto and/or Benazir Bhutto)---Adlai E. Stevenson II---Shanghai---Grenada---Operation Barbarossa (prompt on descriptions of the Nazi invasion of Russia before the end) Page 9 ---Herod the Great---Fr´ed´eric Franc¸ois Chopin (accept Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin)---Ferdinand---grafﬁti (or grafﬁto; prompt on descriptions of vandalism)---Kyoto Page 10 ---United Nations [vohzh] came to the aid of the losing side.---Franco-Prussian War (or Franco-German War)---Republic of Argentina---the mouth of the Mississippi River (accept descriptions of the end of the Mississippi River; accept Mississippi River Delta, even after “Delta” is read; prompt on partial answers, like “Mississippi River;” prompt on Gulf of Mexico or answers thus related)---Page 11 ---Jared Diamond---Ramesses II (accept Ramesses the Great; prompt on Ramesses; prompt on Ozymandias)---denarius (or denarii; prompt on (silver) coin before mentioned)---East Germany (accept German Democratic Republic; accept Deutsche Demokratische Republik; accept GDP; accept DDR)---plane crashes Page 12 ---Song Dynasty---Rwandan Genocide (accept descriptive answers of a genocide of the Tutsis/by the Hutus before either is mentioned)---Ivan IV (or Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan Grozny)---Blue House (or the Pavilion of Blue Tiles; or Cheong Wa Dae)---Page 13 ---Federal Bureau of Investigation (or FBI)---North Aral Sea (prompt on Aral Sea alone)---Shaka Zulu---Edward (accept Edward I, Edward II, Edward VIII)---The Red Badge of Courage Page 14 ---Nazi Germany (accept Naziism; accept equivalents related to the Third Reich; prompt on Germany)---the Netherlands (accept United Provinces; accept the Dutch Republic)---Bangladesh (accept East Pakistan before mentioned; do not prompt on Pakistan alone)---George Washington Page 15---