C---True---99
In 1979, the strongest of these events, Tip, killed 13 Marines in a ﬁre on Guam. In 2013, cities in Palau were completely destroyed and thousands of people were killed when Tacloban City was hit by the eyewall of one of these named Haiyan. The Philippines and West Paciﬁc are struck by, for the point, what tropical cyclonic storm systems, otherwise called hurricanes when they strike in the Atlantic?---During this man’s visit to the United States, he visited Roswell Garst’s farm in Iowa and was prohibited from visiting Disneyland for security reasons. He debated with Richard Nixon in the Kitchen Debate, and banged a shoe on the podium during a UN address, claiming “we will bury you!” This man gave the “Secret Speech” denouncing his predecessor’s policies and purges. For the point, name this Soviet Premier who authorized placing nuclear missiles on Cuba, igniting the Cuban Missile Crisis.---Protests against these events at Moruroa were to be joined by the Rainbow Warrior when it was sunk by the French. The most recent one of these events took place at Punggye-ri in 2016. The ﬁrst of these events inspired one observer to quote the Bhagavad Gita, and Novaya Zemlya was the site of the largest of these events, which used Tsar Bomba. For the point, name these experiments carried out by the U.S. at the Trinity site and Bikini Atoll that involve exploding hydrogen or atomic bombs for scientiﬁc purposes.---In this body of water, Russian vessels mistook ﬁshing boats for Japanese warships in the Dogger Bank incident. This sea was the site of the ﬁrst naval battle in World War I, the Battle of Heligoland Bight. In 1965, British Petroleum discovered oil in this body of water, whose reserves are also drilled by Statoil of Norway. For the point, the Rhine River empties into what sea of the Atlantic Ocean located between the UK, Germany, and Norway?---This building was designed by Sostratus and commissioned by a member of the Diadochi who brought Alexander the Great’s body to Memphis, named Ptolemy I. Three earthquakes destroyed this building, whose remains can be visited by scuba divers. It employed a large mirror to reﬂect sunlight, as well as ﬁre during the night. For the point, name this wonder of the ancient world on the island of Pharos near Alexandria, Egypt, which protected passing ships. Great Lighthouse (or Pharos before mentioned, or the Lighthouse of Alexandria---”Rosenwald schools” were built to address a symptom of this policy, which was opposed by Orval Faubus in Arkansas. In 1954, the Supreme Court ruled that this policy should be implemented “with all deliberate speed” in Topeka, Kansas. James Meredith and the Little Rock Nine were among the ﬁrst beneﬁciaries of, for the point, what process mandated by Brown v. Board of Education in which certain institutions could not be “separate but equal?”---Harvard University once employed this man as treasurer, though they ﬁred him when he refused to return his records. The Dunlap broadside includes a printing of this man’s name in his role as President of the Continental Congress, though the legend that he wanted King George III to not need his glasses to read his writing is false. For the point, name this Founding Father known for his large signature on the Declaration of Independence.---In this battle, the ne’arin arrived from Amurru as the attacking army stopped to loot the enemy [or-ON-tees] River. The surviving account of this battle camp; they were then driven across the Orontes is biased against Muwatalli II’s side, but is still valuable to historians as the earliest description of battle tactics. For the point, name this largest chariot battle in history, fought between the Hittites and Rameses II’s Egyptian army in 1274 BC.---This man organized the Society of the Cincinnati for Revolutionary War oﬃcers. John Adams commissioned this man to lead the “noble train of artillery” over ice and swampland, helping fortify Dorchester Heights with cannons captured at Fort Ticonderoga. He proposed expanding the armories after Shays’ Rebellion in his position on President Washington’s cabinet. The Revolutionary War siege of Boston was assisted by, for the point, what ﬁrst Secretary of War?---This person recruited the Capite Censi [KAHP-eh-teh KEN-see] into the army. He defeated the invasion of the Cimbri [KIM-bree] and Teutones by winning the Battle of Aquae Sextiae [AH-quai SEX-ti-aye], earning him the epithet “third founder of Rome” four years after winning the Jugurthine War. This man modernized the Roman army but was driven out of Rome when a rival undertook the ﬁrst Roman march on Rome and introduced proscriptions. For the point, name this uncle of Julius Caesar and enemy of Lucius Cornelius Sulla.---One ruler of this dynasty died while trying to pray in a library, and a future ruler of this dynasty set up a namesake citadel at the city of Orcha where he defeated Vir Singh Deo. That ruler was more famous for setting up the “Golden Chain of Justice;” that ruler was Jahangir. His father set up the Dahsala system, and moved the capital to Fatehpur Sikri. That student of Bairam Khan had defeated Hemu the Grosser at the Second Battle of Panipat. For the point, name this Indian dynasty that included Akbar the Great.---As a result of this event, the Supreme Court upheld the right of Congress to compel witness testimony in McGrain v. Daugherty. Thomas Walsh led the investigation into this scandal, which caused Edwin Denby to resign from the Navy Department, which transferred oil reserves at Elk Hills to the Interior Department under Albert Fall, who then leased them to Edward Doheny. For the point, name this 1922 scandal during the Harding administration.---A Peter Paul Rubens depiction of this man shows him holding a book and his right hand outstretched while a ray of light is shining upon him. This man experienced a spiritual awakening after being wounded at the Battle of Pamplona, and he later wrote a book after his time living with the Benedictine Monastery in Montserrat called The Spiritual Exercises. He created an organization based on his religious awakening that included Francis Xavier. For the point, name this founder of the Jesuits.---This country is home to a martial art that was oﬃcially illegal until 1940; that martial art is accompanied by the one-string berimbeau and was developed as a survival tool by escaped slaves. A style of jazz developed in this home of capoeira [KAP-oh-AY-rah] was popularized by Jo˜ao Gilberto [zho-OW zhil-BEAR-toh] and grew out of a dance style popularly performed in a pre-Lenten festival in this country. Bossa nova and samba are heard, and the world’s largest Carnival [kahr-nee-VAL] is celebrated in, for the point, what largest South American nation?---Hubert-Joseph Henry committed suicide after being involved in this event, and George Picquart’s investigation found that Ferdinand Esterhazy was the real culprit behind criminal charges that led to this event. George Clemenceau’s newspaper L’Aurore was used to criticize one side in this scandal, and the ´ man at the center of this scandal was imprisoned at Devil’s Island. Emile Zola accused the French army of covering up this scandal in his work J’Accuse. For the point, name this French scandal that saw a Jewish army oﬃcer falsely punished for treason. Dreyfus Aﬀair---Police killed 41 people during one of these events in Marikana, South Africa in 2012. One of these became violent after a massacre at Ludlow against families who worked for John D. Rockefeller’s Colorado Fuel & Iron Company. These events are sometimes broken when scabs are hired or union members are ﬁred. For the point, name these actions in which miners protested working conditions by refusing to work. strike (accept gold miner strike before “Ludlow”)---One building owned by this organization includes a “Crow’s Nest,” hidden behind a secret passageway, that lodges amateurs. In 1998, it served cheeseburgers and milkshakes at its Champions’ Dinner, as requested somewhat-controversially by Tiger Woods. Its leader, Billy Payne, inducted Darla Moore and Condoleezza Rice to this organization in 2012 after previously supporting its ban on female members. For the point, name this golf club in Georgia that awards green jackets to the winner of its annual tournament, the Masters.---Two answers required. Jason Socrates Bardi published a 2006 popular history of a dispute between these two people. John Collins and Isaac Barrow encouraged one of these two men to publish his discovery. One of these people called his discovery the “method of ﬂuxions,” but his dot notation fell out of favor compared to the other’s notation using the letter d. For the point, name these two mathematicians, one English and one German, who independently developed diﬀerential and integral calculus.---This man wrote “The appearance of inﬂuence or access [...] will not cause the electorate to lose faith in our democracy” in his majority opinion in the Citizens United case. In 2015, he wrote “No union is more profound than marriage” to close the majority opinion of Obergefell v. Hodges, legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States by a 5-4 vote. For the point, name this Supreme Court justice, whose libertarian views often make him the “swing vote” on the current Supreme Court.---This organization was once led by Gerhard VII of Holstein, who was unsuccessful against the forces of Eric of Pomerania. Prior to the formation of the Kalmar Union, this organization ﬁnanced the Victual Brothers. This organization made heavy use of the cog and maintained foreign trade posts called kontors. Bremen and Hamburg still call themselves free cities of this organization, which was organized from Lu¨beck. For the point, name this Germanic trade confederation that dominated the Baltic and North Seas.---Alexander Spiers and John Glassford were among the Glasgow-based “Lords” who grew rich from importing this good. Early advocates of this substance’s healing properties included Nicol´as Monardes and Thomas Harriet. James I wrote a “Counterblaste” on the dangers of this plant. For the point, name this most proﬁtable cash crop of colonial Virginia, which was exported to England to be smoked. tobacco (accept speciﬁc tobacco products, like cigars)---The Ottoman Empire became involved in this conﬂict through the Pruth River Campaign. The Siege of Fredriksten during this conﬂict saw the death of one leader, who had previously attacked in a blinding snowstorm at the Battle of Narva. One side in this conﬂict ceded Ingria in the Treaty of Nystad, where the city of Saint Petersburg was eventually built. During this conﬂict, Charles XII lost the Battle of Poltava to Peter the Great. For the point, name this 18th century war in which Sweden was defeated by Russia. Great Northern War (or Second Northern War)---One part of this battle saw the death of Simon Fraser by sniper Timothy Murphy. The aftermath of this battle led to the Treaty of Alliance with Louis XVI of France. Areas of ﬁghting in this battle were Freeman’s Farm and Bemis Heights, where Benedict Arnold was wounded. For the point, name this battle in which Horatio Gates defeated John Burgoyne, considered the turning point of the American Revolution.---This artist depicted a one-eyed Batavian chieftain crossing swords in his The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis. In another of his paintings, seven men observe as Aris Kindt’s corpse is being examined by the title doctor. A woman holds a chicken in his depiction of the Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq. For the point, name this Dutch artist of The Anatomy Lesson and The Night Watch.---John Dewey assisted this man’s educational reforms, including the introduction of a modiﬁed Latin alphabet to replace Arabic script. After his country’s borders were conﬁrmed by the Treaty of Lausanne, his political reforms, including the abolishment of sharia courts and the caliphate in 1924, created a democratic and secular republic with a new capital, Ankara. For the point, name this founder of modern Turkey.---Musician Daryl Davis famously “converted” members of this organization. This group’s name is derived from the Greek word for “circle”. Nathan Bedford Forrest founded the ﬁrst iteration of this organization, of which he was the ﬁrst Grand Wizard. For the point, name this white supremacist organization whose members wear white hoods and robes.---Gilbert Ryle accused this man of making a “category-mistake,” and the city of Utrecht banned this thinker’s teachings in 1642. This philosopher, who posited that the pineal gland was the “seat of the soul,” addressed the fact that his senses might be deceived by a demon and proposed the dualistic nature of the body and mind. For the point, name this author of Meditations on First Philosophy who stated “I think, therefore I am.”---The festival Our Lady of Victory was created in commemoration of this battle, where a Genoan contingent was led by Gianandrea Doria. This battle was a reaction to the siege of Famagusta, and the Venetians, led by Agostino Barbarigo, ﬁelded 6 galleasses [ga-LEE-us-es] during this battle. Miguel Cervantes lost his left arm in this battle, in which Don Juan of Austria used the Real [ree-AHL] as his ﬂagship and defeated Ali Pasha. For the point, name this 1571 naval battle in the Gulf of Patras which saw the Holy League defeat the Ottoman Empire. Lepanto---A conﬂict in this country led Bernard Kouchner and others to found Doctors Without Borders; in that civil war, Chukwuemeka Ojukwu led a breakaway republic in this country’s southeast centered on the oil reﬁning city of Port Harcourt. The Biafran Civil War split, for the point, what most populous African nation, where 15 million people live in Lagos?---One member of this family contested the Hungarian throne with Janos Zapolyas [YAHN-osh ZAHP-oll-yas] and incited a rebellion against him that ended up with that member of this family winning the Battle of Tarcal. Inbreeding in this family resulted in a characteristic “lip” in this family, whose last monarch was removed from power after World War I. For the point, name this ruling house of the Holy Roman Empire, also known as the House of Austria.---One ruler of this dynasty gifted a water clock and elephant to Charlemagne. This dynasty gained the knowledge of papermaking after defeating the Tang Dynasty at Talas River. It came into power after winning the Battle of the Zab, and the last ruler of this dynasty was rolled up in a carpet and trampled after the 1258 Mongol Siege of Baghdad. For the point, name this Caliphate that succeeded the Umayyads.---This man defeated Jorge Alessandri in an election that would have been opposed by the CIA’s Project FUBELT. In the last months of his presidency, his Congress accused him of suppressing a strike at the El Teniente copper mine. As La Moneda palace was surrounded by army forces on September 11, 1973, this leader gave a radio-transmitted farewell speech and committed suicide. For the point, name this Chilean socialist who was overthrown in a 1973 coup by Augusto Pinochet.---Talmadge Hayer confessed to killing this man, the shooting of whom was preceded by a man yelling “Get your hand outta my pocket!” This founder of the Organization of Afro-American Unity characterized JFK’s assassination as “chickens coming home to roost”. This follower-turned-rival of Elijah Muhammad delivered the “Ballot or the Bullet” speech shortly before meeting his counterpart, Martin Luther King, Jr. For the point, name this African-American Muslim civil rights leader who went by a single-letter surname.---This country was the site of the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale. The group FLEC supports the secession of the oil-rich exclave of Cabinda from this country. This country was said to be “Cuba’s Vietnam,” according to rebel leader Jonas Savimbi. A 27-year civil war in this country was fought between the factions of UNITA and Jose Eduardo dos Santos’s MPLA. For the point, name this African country ruled from Luanda. Angola---This organization’s defense of Germany against the Hussites resulted in it losing Samogitia in the Treaty of Melno, which ended the Gollub War. The Livonian Branch of this organization was crushed by Alexander Nevsky at the Battle on the Ice, and this organization’s Grand Master Ulrich von Jungingen [YUNG-ing-in] was killed by Polish forces at the Battle of Grunwald. For the point, name this German organization of knights active in Northern Europe whose original purpose was to aid Christians on pilgrimages to the Holy Land.---This war’s Taos revolt was started after Little Thomas and Pablo Montoya led a group in killing Charles Bent. Future president Zachary Taylor led one side’s forces in this war’s Battle of Monterrey. During this war, William Ide led the Bear Flag revolt in Alta California, which was granted to the victorious side in this war after Nicholas Trist negotiated the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. For the point, name this war that began after a border dispute over the annexation of Texas.---This man deserted to Austria with Charles Duomoriez [duo-MORR-ee-AY], and Giuseppe Fieschi [ﬁ-ESS-kee] used twenty ﬁve barrel guns in an attempt to assassinate this monarch. He rose to power after the failed Ordinances of Saint Cloud and the Three Glorious Days. This leader was satirized in many of Honor´e Daumier’s [on-or-AY doh-mee-YAY’s] cartoons as “Gargantua”. This man was overthrown after the fall of his minister, Fran¸cois Guizot [fran-SWAH gee-ZOH], and the formation of the Second French Republic in the Revolutions of 1848. For the point, name this French “Citizen King” who overthrew Charles X in the 1830 July Revolution.---The winner of the election in this year spoke of “states’ rights” at the Neshoba County Fair near Philadelphia, Mississippi. The incumbent President was challenged by Edward Kennedy in the primaries and by the phrase “there you go again” during the debates leading up to this year’s election. The incumbent’s handling of the Iran Hostage Crisis and rising unemployment was attacked with the question, “Are you better oﬀ than you were four years ago?”. For the point, name this election year in which Democrat Jimmy Carter was defeated by Ronald Reagan.---Manuela Saenz protected this man from an assassination attempt. The failure of his Admirable Campaign led him to ﬂee to Jamaica. The nation of Gran Colombia was formed after this man won the Battles of Boyaca in Colombia and Carabobo in Venezuela. For the point, name this Liberator who fought Spain for the independence of South American nations. Bolivar y Palacios---After one season, second baseman Eddie Stanky was traded to make room for this player. This former vice-president and spokesman for Chock Full O’Nuts coﬀee debuted two months before Cleveland Indian Larry Doby. He was signed as “a ballplayer with guts enough not to ﬁght back” by Branch Rickey. The number 42 is retired by all MLB teams in honor of, for the point, what athlete whose 1947 debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers integrated Major League Baseball?---One party in this country, which attempted to enact a presidential system and helped end this country’s pillarisation, is Democrats66. Its orthodox Protestant SGP restricted membership to men until 2006, and is considered a “testimonial party” along with its Party for the Animals. In 2002, this country’s anti-immigrant Pim Fortuyn [for-TINE] was assassinated while campaigning, and its Queen Beatrix abdicated in 2013. For the point, in what Low Country does Parliament meet in the Hague despite its capital oﬃcially being Amsterdam?---This composer included “La Paix” winds and percussion written to celebrate the signing of the Treaty of Aix-La-Chapelle [ex lah SHA-pell]. King George II supposedly stood up at the premiere of another work by this man, which is often performed at Christmas. for the point, what German-born English composer wrote the Music for the Royal Fireworks and the oratorio Messiah, which includes the “Hallelujah” chorus?---One symbol in this novel is a “T” in honor of the mass-produced car built by its calendar’s namesake. At the end of this novel, which takes its title from The Tempest, Mustapha Mond reveals he has a secret collection of Shakespeare. “Gammas” are produced by the Bokanovsky process in this novel, in which Alphas and Betas are named for historical ﬁgures like Lenin and Marx. The pleasure drug soma is consumed in, for the point, what dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley?---This man was inprisoned by his stepmom Plectrude after the death of his father Pepin of Herstal. This man was defeated by Radbod, King of the Frisians, at the Battle of Cologne. This man’s most famous achievement came after Odo the Great was defeated at the Battle of Garonne River. That achievement saw this Mayor of the Palace defeat forces of the Umayyad Caliphate led by Abd Ar-Rahman; that battle was the Battle of Tours. For the point, name this Frankish leader who was nicknamed “The Hammer”.---This leader rose in power after winning the Toluid Civil War against his brother, Ariq Broke. He sent Bayan to help put down a rebellion led by Nayan. This leader twice attempted to invade Japan, but both attempts were stopped by a “divine wind,” or kamikaze. Nestorian monk Rabban Sauma and Marco Polo visited the court of this emperor. The Yuan Dynasty was founded by, for the point, what Mongol emperor of China and grandson of Genghis Khan? Kublai Khan (or Kubla or Kubilai)---This man gave support to William Henry Harrison’s presidential campaign by forming the newspaper Log Cabin. He penned a letter to Abraham Lincoln urging him to free the slaves in “The Prayer of Twenty Million.” Margaret Fuller served as an editor to one of this man’s newspapers which hired Karl Marx. He died three weeks after losing a Presidential election to an opponent who faced the Credit Mobilier [mohb-eel-yay] and Whiskey Ring scandals. For the point, name this 1872 Liberal Republican Presidential candidate and founder of the New York Tribune.---This man landed at the Three Kings Islands during Epiphany, which inspired their name. One attempt to water his ships ended in bloodshed at a place he then named Murderer’s Bay; he named another discovery for his patron, Antonio van Diemen. For the point, name this Dutch explorer, the ﬁrst European to reach New Zealand, the namesake of an Australian island state.---This country’s independence was guaranteed at the Battle of Verti`eres [vert-YAYR]. This nation’s independence was declared at Gonaives [goh-nah-EEV] by its future Emperor-for-life Jean-Jacques Dessalines [dess-ah-LEEN], who led this nation’s independence movement against Charles Leclerc after the capture of Toussaint L’Overture [too-SAHN loh-ver-TYOOR] by French forces. For the point, name this island nation that gained its independence from France and shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic. Haiti---To prepare this location, eminent domain was used to destroy Seneca Village. A 1981 reunion of Simon and Garfunkel served as a beneﬁt concert for this location. This home of the open-air Delacorte Theater and the Tavern on the Green is bordered on the southeast by Fifth Avenue. For the point, name this Frederick Law Olmsted-designed green space in Manhattan, the most-visited park in the U.S.---In apartheid South Africa, this image was the leftmost inset ﬂag, joining the Natal and Orange Free State ﬂags in the center stripe. Fiji is holding a contest for a new ﬂag without this image, while a silver fern could replace this image, unless the Red Peak wins in the ﬁrst stage of a New Zealand referendum. The St. George, St. Patrick, and St. Andrew crosses feature in, for the point, what national ﬂag, found in the upper left corner of both the Australian and New Zealand ﬂags?---This man gave the Cakra Donya bell as a gift to the Kingdom of Pasai. This man’s second visit to Sri Lanka was commemorated by a stone inscribed with Persian, Tamil, and Chinese. The Hongxi [hong-shee] Emperor re-assigned this man to domestic defense in Nanjing, ending the treasure voyages ordered by the Yongle Emperor. For the point, name this Chinese eunuch and explorer of the Ming dynasty. Zheng He [zheng huh]---This man received a royal pardon from Woodes Rogers shortly after landing at Beaufort Inlet. Alexander Spotswood ordered a force led by Robert Maynard to capture this man; after destroyed his new ship, the Adventure, and killing him in close combat, Maynard placed this man’s severed head on his bow. Edward Teach was the real name of, for the point, what man who led the Queen Anne’s Revenge in early American piracy?---In 1815 in this state, Black Hawk fought the Battle of the Sink Hole nearly six months after the Treaty of Ghent. This state, whose ﬁrst capital was St. Charles, attained statehood in the same year as Maine, 1820. This was the starting point for both the Pony Express and the Oregon Trail, the latter of which began in Independence. For the point, name this midwestern state where Union forces attacked pro-secession militiamen at Camp Jackson in the “St. Louis Massacre.”---A wooden hand is one of the most revered relics of this organization, which distinguished itself at Tuyen Quang; that hand was returned to this organization after the Battle of Cameron. The Spilled Blood law applies to members of this organization, and by law this organization is not allowed in the Hexagon except when invaded. Members of this organization participated in the Algiers Putsch, and this group was based in Algeria until its independence. For the point, name this military unit, mostly of foreign nationals in the service of France.---This ruler was opposed by Philippe Villiers’ Knights Hospitallers in the Siege of Rhodes. This ruler conquered Belgrade in 1521 and dominated Louis II’s army at the Battle of Moh´acs [mo-HAHTCH], leading to the partition of Hungary, but his advance into Europe was ended in 1529. This lawgiver was the father of Selim II. For the point, name this Ottoman sultan, called “the Magniﬁcent.”---It’s not abolitionism, but one man involved in this movement, Samuel Davies, wrote one of the earliest defenses for the education of slaves. A prominent ﬁgure in this movement put John Wesley in charge of his prior activities before moving to the United States. The author of the sermon “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God,” Jonathan Edwards, was a leader of this movement. For the point, name this period of religious revival in the American colonies during the 1730s and 1740s. Great Awakening---Carlo Cattaneo and Vincenzo Gioberti wrote in favor of this movement, and supporters of this movement were heavily inﬂuenced by the secret society named the Carbonari, or “charcoal burners”. The secret Plombi`eres [plohm-bee-AIR] Agreement increased the strength of this movement under Camillo di Cavour. The Expedition of the Thousand led by Giuseppe Garibaldi destroyed the Kingdom of Two Sicilies in order to achieve this goal. For the point, name this 19th century movement also called Risorgimento that sought to create a country centered at Rome. Italian uniﬁcation (accept Risorgimento until mention)---One battle that took place near this city allegedly led to the inventions of the bagel and the croissant. That battle took place on the nearby Kahlenberg Hill north of this city and included the largest cavalry charge in history, led by the King of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, Jan Sobieski III. For the point, name this city besieged by the Ottomans in 1683, the capital of Austria.---Supporters of this proposal seek to pass it using the “three state strategy.” The Hayden rider was used to disrupt the text of this proposal, which was opposed with the phrase “I am for Mom and apple pie” by Phyllis Schlaﬂy. Crystal Eastman and Alice Paul wrote this proposal in 1923, but it only received 35 state ratiﬁcations before expiring in 1982. For the point, name this proposed Constitutional amendment that aimed to stop discrimination based on sex.---The legal status of this region’s language was established by the Equality Law, and the Pilgrimage of the Yser commemorates soldiers from this region who died in World War I. This region contains the exclaves of Baarle-Hertog and Voeren, and this cloth-producing region proﬁted from the wool trade with nearby England. Infantrymen from this region defeated Philip IV of France at the Battle of the Golden Spurs. This region is located north of Wallonia. For the point, name this region that occupies the northern half of Belgium where Dutch is spoken.---This phrase names Spike Lee’s ﬁlm production company. It was partially derived from the Special Field Orders Number 15 issued by General Sherman, and a proposal to provide food and tools in addition to that promised by this phrase was attempted by the Freedman’s Bureau. For the point, name this phrase that supposedly promised land and agricultural supplies to freed slaves after the Civil War.---John Coode led a rebellion after the Glorious Revolution in this colony. The Battle of Severn took place in this colony during an era known as the “plundering time”. That era led Governor William Claiborne to revoke a law originally passed under a member of the Calvert family, who protected Catholics in this American colony by that 1649 Toleration Act. For the point, name this colony once governed by Lord Baltimore.---These individuals were subject to the Harkin-Engel Protocol regarding cocoa production, and In re Gault extended due process rights to these people in delinquency proceedings. Hammer v. Dagenhart ruled that the Keating-Owen Act’s prohibition on the sale of goods produced by these people was unconstitutional. For the point, name these people whose labor was exploited during the Industrial Revolution, as their ﬁngers were small enough to reach inside machines. children (accept equivalents)---A force from this civilization destroyed the Spanish settlement of Cuenca that was founded by Juan Pardo in 1567. This civilization’s artifacts and culture are connected by the Southeastern Ceremonial Complex. The largest earthwork created by these people, Monks Mound, is one of the Cahokia Mounds near St. Louis. For the point, name this culture that thrived in the American midwest, particularly near the river for which they are now named.---Nathaniel Macon served as a running mate in this election year to William H. Crawford, who died of a heart attack before voting. It was the ﬁrst election that was directly aﬀected by the 12th Amendment by calling a vote in the House of Representatives; that vote was presided over by Henry Clay, who was accused of agreeing to a so-called Corrupt Bargain. For the point, name this election in which John Quincy Adams defeated Andrew Jackson.---This organization was responsible for the creation of two Cholera Research Laboratories in Thailand and Bangladesh. Pote Sarasin was the ﬁrst Secretary General of this organization, which was envisioned by John Foster Dulles and formed by the Manila Pact. The Philippines and Thailand were notably the only two southeast Asian nations in this organization. for the point, name this organization intended to contain Communist China, analogous to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO.---This man was born with the name Telemaque. He gained his freedom from slavery after winning a lottery ticket. Joe LaRoche and George Wilson provided information that led to the arrest of this man. Gullah Jack was executed for helping this man by recruiting slaves for a plot to overthrow a South Carolina coastal town. For the point, name this man who planned a slave revolt in Charleston.---The constitutionality of this program was upheld in Ashwander v. [this agency]. Its Tellico project was delayed for years over concerns about the snail darter. George Norris championed its creation after the failure of his earlier Muscle Shoals bill. This agency educated residents in its service area about crop rotation and currently operates three nuclear plants in addition to 29 hydroelectric plants. For the point, name this New Deal agency that dammed rivers for ﬂood control and rural electriﬁcation?---In 2015, Austria denied that their anti-traﬃcking searches violated this agreement. The Dublin System details how countries who adhere to this agreement process asylum, and Viktor Orban threatened to block Croatia’s accession to this agreement due to migrants crossing through Croatia to Hungary. For the point, name this 1985 agreement, signed in Luxembourg, which provides for travel between European Union-member countries without border checks. Schengen Agreement (accept Schengen Area agreement)---Concrete marks were ﬁlled with red resin to form namesake “roses” of one siege in this event, and another battle in this event saw the inactivity of Dutchbat. Ratko Mladic [M’LAH-ditch] and Slobodan Milosevic [mee-LOH-se-VITCH] stood trial for war crimes committed during this event. Serbian forces sieged Sarajevo in, for the point, what event that saw the formation of Slovenia, Croatia, and Bosnia from a defunct country?---Controversially, this event was only to involve ten automatic qualiﬁers, infuriating Ireland. Afghanistan made its debut in this event at Manuka Oval against Bangladesh. Grant Elliot’s late heroics in the semi-ﬁnal eliminated South Africa, but Brendon McCullum was retired with no runs in the ﬁnal as the Black Caps ﬁnished second. For the point, name this 2015 sporting event, won by Australia over New Zealand by 7 wickets.---A revolution led this man to issue the Fundamental Statute for the Secular Government of the States of the Church. The Law of Guarantees attempted to appease the demands of this man, who later issued the encyclical Etsi multa, criticizing Otto von Bismarck’s Kulturkampf as a war against the church. He passed the Quanta Cura the same day he issued the Syllabus of Errors, and this man deﬁned papal infallibility in the First Vatican Council. The Uniﬁcation of Italy led, for the point, what man and his successors to become known as the Prisoner of the Vatican.---One leader of an empire in this modern-day country, Krum the Fearsome, used the silver-lined skull of Nikephoros I as a drinking cup after winning the Battle of Pliska. This country experienced a golden age under the reign of Simeon the Great, and much of Thrace was contained in this modern-day country. After the Battle of Kleidon, soldiers from this country were blinded by Basil II, leading to him being called the slayer of its people. For the point, name this country on the Black Sea, which has had capitals at Tarnovo and Soﬁa.---The Songhai ruler Askia II planned to use these animals in the Battle of Tondibi to create a smokescreen; the plan was ruined by the sound of cannonﬁre. Banastre Tarleton was defeated by Daniel Morgan at a location named for these animals, turning the tide of the Revolutionary War in South Carolina. For the point, name these four legged animals, unsuited for cavalry due to their lack of speed and inability to be trained, and therefore primarily used in war as draft animals or a source of meat and dairy. cows (or cattle; accept equivalents like bulls, oxen, etc.)---In 2015, Harvard’s Laurence Tribe claimed that the EPA would make the burning of this thing “part of our national energy policy.” In 1854, William Lloyd Garrison burned this document, calling it an “agreement with Hell” and a “covenant with death” for its support of slavery. For the point, name this document that activists against the burning of American ﬂags want to amend.---
typhoon (prompt on “cyclones” or “storms”; do not accept “hurricanes”)---Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev---nuclear weapons testing (accept equivalents of “exploding hydrogen bombs” or “exploding atomic bombs” before mention)---North Sea---The before Alexandria is mentioned) Page 1 ---public school desegregation or public school integration (accept any description of public schools admitting African American students; prompt on partial answer)---John Hancock---Battle of Kadesh---Henry Knox---Gaius Marius Page 2 ---Mughal dynasty---Teapot Dome Scandal---St. Ignatius of Loyola---Federative Republic of Brazil (or Brasil)------miner Page 3 ---Augusta National Golf Club---Sir Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz---Anthony Kennedy---Hanseatic League or Hansa------Page 4 ---Battle of Saratoga---Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (accept either underlined name)---Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (accept either underlined portion)---Ku Klux Klan (prompt on “Klan”)---Rene Descartes [day-CART]---Battle of Page 5 ---Federal Republic of Nigeria---House of Hapsburg or Habsburg (prompt on House of Austria before mentioned)---Abbasid Caliphate---Salvador Guillermo Allende [aye-YEN-day] Gossens---Malcolm X (accept Malcolm Little or el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz)---Republic of Page 6 ---Teutonic Knights or Teutonic Order (or Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem)---Mexican-American War---Louis-Philippe or Duke of Orleans---United States Presidential Election of 1980---Simon Jose Antonio de la Santisima Trinidad Page 7 ---Jack Roosevelt “Jackie” Robinson---Kingdom of the Netherlands [PAY] and “La Rejouissance” [reh-ZHWEE-sahnss] in a work for---George Friedrich Handel---Brave New World---Charles Martel (prompt on a partial answer)---Page 8 ---Horace Greeley---Abel Janszoon Tasman---Republic of---Central Park (prompt on Manhattan or New York City)---Union Jack or Royal Union ﬂag (accept ﬂag of the United Kingdom; do not accept ﬂags of any U.K. constituent countries)---Page 9 ---Blackbeard (accept Edward Teach before mentioned)---Missouri---French Foreign Legion or Legion Etrangere---Suleiman I (or Suleiman the Magnificent or Suleiman the Lawgiver before mentioned, prompt on “Suleiman”)---First---Page 10 ---Vienna or Wien---Equal Rights Amendment (or ERA)---Flanders (or Flandre or Vlaanderen)---40 acres and a mule---Maryland---Page 11 ---Mississippian culture---Election of 1824---SEATO or Southeast Asia Treaty Organization---Denmark Vesey---Tennessee Valley Authority [or TVA]---Page 12 ---Breakup of Yugoslavia (accept reasonable equivalents, accept “Croatian war of independence” before “roses”, prompt on “secession” from Yugoslavia of any of Bosnia, Croatia, or Slovenia)---2015 ICC Cricket World Cup---Pius IX or Giovanni Maria Mastari-Ferretti---Republic of Bulgaria---Page 13 ---U.S. Constitution Page 14---